https://github.com/jasonyux/ConFit?utm_source=chatgpt.com
https://github.com/jasonyux/ConFit-v2?utm_source=chatgpt.com
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for
Matching Jobs and Job Seekers
Dor Lavi
dor.lavi@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
Volodymyr Medentsiy
volodymyr.medentsiy@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
David Graus
david.graus@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
ABSTRACT
In this paper we focus on constructing useful embeddings of textual
information in vacancies and resumes, which we aim to incorporate as features into job to job seeker matching models alongside
other features. We explain our task where noisy data from parsed
resumes, heterogeneous nature of the different sources of data,
and crosslinguality and multilinguality present domain-specific
challenges.
We address these challenges by fine-tuning a Siamese SentenceBERT (SBERT) model, which we call conSultantBERT, using a
large-scale, real-world, and high quality dataset of over 270,000
resume-vacancy pairs labeled by our staffing consultants. We show
how our fine-tuned model significantly outperforms unsupervised
and supervised baselines that rely on TF-IDF-weighted feature
vectors and BERT embeddings. In addition, we find our model
successfully matches cross-lingual and multilingual textual content.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies → Ranking; • Information systems → Content analysis and feature selection; Similarity
measures; Language models.
KEYWORDS
job matching, BERT, fine-tuning
1 INTRODUCTION
Randstad is the global leader in the HR services industry. We support people and organizations in realizing their true potential by
combining the power of today’s technology with our passion for
people. In 2020, we helped more than two million job seekers find
a meaningful job with our 236,100 clients. Randstad is active in 38
markets around the world and has top-three positions in almost
half of these. In 2020, Randstad had on average 34,680 corporate
employees and generated revenue of € 20.7 billion.
Each day, at Randstad, we employ industry-scale recommender
systems to recommend thousands of job seekers to our clients, and
the other way around; vacancies to job seekers. Our job recommender system is based on a heterogeneous collection of input
data: curriculum vitaes (resumes) of job seekers, vacancy texts (job
descriptions), and structured data (e.g., the location of a job seeker
or vacancy). The goal of our system is to recommend the best job
seekers to each open vacancy. In this paper we explore methods for
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
2021. Copyright for the individual papers remains with the authors. Copying permitted
for private and academic purposes. This volume is published and copyrighted by its
editors.
constructing useful embeddings of textual information in vacancies
and resumes.
The main requirements of the model are (i) to be able to operate on multiple languages at the same time, and (ii) to be used
to efficiently compare a vacancy with a large dataset of available
resumes.
Our end-goal is to incorporate these embeddings, or features
derived from them, in a larger recommender system that combines
a heterogeneous feature set, spanning, e.g., categorical features and
real-valued features.
1.1 Problem setting
Several challenges arise when matching jobs to job seekers through
textual resume and vacancy data.
First, the data we work with is inherently noisy. On the one hand,
resumes are user-generated data, usually (but not always) in PDF
format. It goes without saying that parsing those files to plain text
can be a challenge in itself and therefore out of scope for this paper.
On the other hand, vacancies are usually structured formatted text.
Second, the nature of the data differs. Most NLP research in text
similarity is based on the assumption that two pieces of information
are the same but written differently [3]. However, in our case the
two documents do not express the same information, but complement each other like pieces of a puzzle. Our goal is to match two
complementary pieces of textual information, that may not exhibit
direct overlap/similarity.
Third, as a multinational corporate that operates all across the
globe, developing separate models for each market and language
does not scale. Therefore, a desired property of our system is multilinguality; a system that will support as many languages as possible.
In addition, as it is common to have English resumes in non-English
countries (e.g., in the Dutch market around 10% of resumes are in
English), cross-linguality is another desired property, e.g., being
able to match English resumes to Dutch vacancies.
This paper is structured as follows. First, in Section 2 we summarize related work on the use of neural embeddings of textual
information in the recruimtent/HR domain. Next, in Section 3.1 we
describe how we leverage our internal history of job seeker placements to create a labeled resume-vacancy pairs dataset. Then, in
Section 3.2 we describe how we fine-tune a multilingual BERT with
bi encoder structure [12] over this dataset, by adding a cosine similarity log loss layer. Finally, in Section 4 we describe how using the
mentioned architecture helps us overcome most of the challenges
described above, and how it enables us to build a maintainable and
scalable pipeline to match resumes and vacancies.
arXiv:2109.06501v1 [cs.CL] 14 Sep 2021
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Lavi et al.
2 RELATED WORK
Neural embeddings are widely used for content-based retrieval,
and embedding models became an essential component in the modern recommender system pipelines [8] [6]. So the the main focus
of our work is to construct embeddings of textual information in
vacancy and resume, which could be then incorporated into another job-job seeker matching model and used along with other
features, e.g. location and other categorical features. So we will
focus on reviewing methods of embedding vacancies and resumes.
The task of embedding resume and vacancy could be posed as
creating domain-specific document embeddings. Although contextaware embeddings proved to outperform bag-of-words approaches
in most of the NLP tasks in academia, the latter is still widely used
in the industry.
Bian et al. propose to construct two sub-models with a co-teaching
mechanism to combine predictions of those models. The first submodel encodes relational information of resume and vacancy, and
the second sub-model, which is related to our work, encodes textual
information in resume and vacancy. Documents are processed per
sentence, with every sentence being encoded using the CLS token
of the BERT model. The Hierarchical Transformer is applied on top
of sentence embeddings to get the document embeddings. The final
match prediction is obtained by applying a fully-connected layer
with sigmoid activation on concatenated embeddings of resume and
vacancy. Bhatia et al. propose to fine-tune BERT on the sequence
pair classification task to predict whether two job experiences belong to one person or not. The proposed method does not require
a dataset of labeled resume-vacancy pairs. The fine-tuned model
is used to embed both the job description of the vacancy and the
current job experiences of the job seeker. Zhao et al. process words
in resumes and vacancies using word2vec embeddings and domainspecific vocabulary. Word embeddings are fitted into a stack of
convolutional blocks of different kernel sizes, on top of which Zhao
et al. apply attention to get the context vector and project that into
the embedding space using the FC layer. The model is trained using
the binary cross-entropy loss on the task of predicting a match
between job seeker and vacancy. Ramanath et al. use supervised
and unsupervised embeddings for their ranking model to recommend candidates to recruiter queries. The unsupervised method
does not use the unstructured textual data but relies on the data
stored in Linkedin Economic Graph [15], which represents entities
such as skills, educational institutions, employers, employees, and
relations among them. Candidates and queries are embedded using
the graph neural models in this method. The supervised method
embeds textual information in recruiters’ queries and candidates’
profiles using the DSSM [7] model. The DSSM operates on the character trigrams and is composed of two separate models to embed
queries and candidates. The DSSM model is trained on the historical
data of recruiters’ interaction with candidates.
Zhu et al. utilize skip-gram embeddings of various dimensionalities (64 for resume and 256 for a vacancy) to encode words, which
are then passed through two convolutional layers. A pooling operation (max pooling for resume and mean pooling for vacancy) is
applied to the output of convolutional layers to get the embeddings
of resume and vacancy. The model is optimized using the cosine
similarity loss. Qin et al. divide job postings into sections of ability
requirements, and resumes into sections of experiences. The words
are encoded using pre-trained embeddings and processed with biLSTM. To get the embeddings of job postings and resumes, they
propose a two-step hierarchical pipeline. Every section is encoded
using the attention mechanism, and finally to get embeddings of the
job postings and resumes they run bi-LSTM on top of section encodings and aggregate bi-LSTM outputs using the attention mechanism.
Additionally, during processing information in resumes Qin et al.
propose to add encodings of job postings to emphasize skills in a
resume relevant for a specific job.
We can not directly compare our work with other approaches,
because of the different datasets used. For example, Bhatia et al.
and Qin et al. assume well-structured resumes, which is not the
case in our situation. Ramanath et al. builds an embedding model
for recruiters’ queries which are shorter than vacancies and lack
the context provided in the vacancy. Bhatia et al. propose solution
when limited amount of data is available. We on the other hand
work in a setting of abundant data of heterogeneous nature, but at
the same time resumes lack consistent structure, while vacancies
are given in a more structured way. Additional issues that are not
considered by most of the reviewed works are (i) cross-linguality,
so that we aim at predicting English resumes to Dutch vacancies if
there is a potential match, and (ii) multilinguality, where we aim
to serve a single model for multiple languages. We address both
issues with our approach. Next, Qin et al. and Zhu et al. observe
that an embedding model may benefit from constructing parallel
pipelines to process resume and vacancy. Our approach relies on a
shared embedding model of resumes and vacancies.
While there are many organizations capable to train off the
shelf transformers, not many of them have the availability of an
abundance of high-quality labeled data. As a global market leader,
we are situated in a unique position. We have both rich histories
of high-quality interactions between consultants, candidates, and
vacancies, in addition to having the content to represent those
candidates and vacancies.
3 METHOD
Here we describe our method, more specifically, in Section 3.1 we
describe how we acquire our labeled dataset of resume/vacancypairs. Next, in Section 3.2 we describe our multilingual SBERT with
bi-encoder and cosine similarity score as output layer.
3.1 Dataset creation
We have rich history of interaction between consultants (recruiters)
and job seekers (candidates). We define a positive signal any point
of contact between a job seeker and consultant (e.g., a phone call,
interview, job offer, etc.). Negative signals are defined by job seekers
who submit their profile, but get rejected by a consultant without
any interaction (i.e., consultant looks at the job seeker’s profile,
and rejects). In addition, since we have unbalanced dataset, for
each vacancy we add random negative samples, which we draw
randomly from our job seeker pool. This is done in spirit with
other works, which also complement historical data with random
negative pairs [2, 17, 18].
Our dataset consists of 274,407 resume-vacancy pairs, out of
which 126,679 are positive samples, 109,724 are negative samples
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
0 20 40 60 80 100
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Num ber of candidates per vacancy
Figure 1: Histogram of the number of resumes per vacancy.
as defined by actual recruiters, and 38,004 are randomly drawn
negative samples. We have 156,256 of unique resumes and 23,080
unique vacancy texts, which implies that one vacancy can be paired
with multiple resumes. Figure 1 shows the histogram of the number
of resume-vacancy samples per vacancy. We see that for the majority of vacancies, we have a small number of paired resumes with
approximately 10.5% of our vacancies being paired with a single
resume, and approximately 30% of our vacancies being paired with
at most three resumes.
resumes are user-generated PDF documents which we parse
with Apache Tika.1 Overall, these parsed resumes can be considered quite noisy input to our model; there is a wide variation in
format and structure of resumes, where common challenges include
the ordering of different textual blocks, the diversity of their content
(e.g., spanning any type of information from personalia, education,
work experience, to hobbies), and parsing of tables and bullet points.
At the same time, vacancies are usually well structured and standardized documents. They consist of on average 2,100 tokens (while
resumes are on average longer and comprised of 2,500 tokens), and
are roughly structured according to the following sections: job title, job description, job requirements, including required skills, job
benefits, including compensation and other aspects, and company
description, which usually includes information about the industry
of the job offered in the vacancy.
3.2 Architecture
Our method, dubbed conSultantBERT (as it is fine-tuned using labels provided by our consultants), utilizes the multilingual BERT [5]
model pre-trained on Wikipedia pages of 100 languages.2 We finetune it using the Siamese networks, as proposed by Reimers and
Gurevych. This method of fine-tuning BERT employs the bi-encoder
structure, which is effective in matching vacancy with a large pool
of available resumes.
1https://tika.apache.org/
2We used the bert-base-multilingual-cased model from the HuggingFace library [16].
The original formulation of the Sentence-BERT (SBERT) model
takes a pair of sentences as input, with words independently encoded in every sentence using BERT, which are aggregated by pooling to get the sentence embeddings. After that, it either optimizes
the regression loss, which is MSE loss between the cosine similarity
score and true similarity label, or optimizes the classification loss,
namely the cross-entropy loss.
Whereas SBERT is aimed at computing pairwise semantic similarity, we show that it can be applied effectively for our task of
matching two heterogeneous types of data. Our fine-tuning pipeline
is illustrated at the Figure 2. So we pass resume and vacancy pairs
to the siamese SBERT and experimented with classification and
regression objectives.
3.2.1 Document representation. Most transformer models, including SBERT, aim to model sentences as input, while we are interested
in modeling documents.
We experimented with several methods for document representation by using the embeddings of the pre-trained BERT model.
First, we attempted to split our input documents into sentences
to encode each sentence; we tried different sentence representations, first we used the pooled layer output from BERT to represent
each sentence, which we then average to represent the document.
Here, we experimented with both simply averaging sentences, and
weighted averaging (by sentence length).
Next, we tried to take the mean of the last 4 layers of the <CLS>
token, which is a special token placed at the start of each sentence,
and considered a suitable representation for the sentence (according
to Devlin et al.). With these sentence representations, too, we represented the underlying document through averaging, both weighted
and simple averaging.
Our final approach however, was more simple. We ended up
treating the first 512 tokens of each input document as input for the
SBERT model, ignoring sentence boundaries. To avoid trimming too
much content, we pre-processed and cleaned our input documents
by, e.g., removing non-textual content that resulted from parsing
errors.
3.2.2 Fine-tuning method. We fine-tune our model on our 80%
training data split for 5 epochs, using a batch size of 4 pairs, and
mean pooling, which was found during hyperparameter tuning
on our validation set as optimal parameters. To fine-tune the pretrained BERT model, we need to trim the content of every resume
and vacancy to 512 tokens, as the base model limits the maximum
number of tokens to 512.
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
In this section, we describe the final datasets we use for training,
validation, and testing in Section 4.1, the baselines and why we employ them in Section 4.2, our proposed fine-tuned conSultantBERT
approach in Section 4.3, and finally, in Section 4.4 we explain our
evaluation metrics and statistical testing methodology.
4.1 Dataset
As described in Section 3.1, our dataset consists of 274,407 resumevacancy pairs. We split this dataset into 80% train (219,525 samples),
10% validation and 10% test (27,441 samples each).
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Lavi et al.
Figure 2: Our conSultantBERT architectures with classification objective (left) and regression objective (right), with resume
text input on the left, and vacancy text input on the right-hand side. Image adopted from [12]. Note that vacancy and resume
differ at the level of words (vocabulary), but also format, structure, and semantics.
We use our training set to (i) fine-tune the embedding models and
train the supervised random forest classifiers, the validation set for
the hyperparameter search of the SBERT hyperparams described
in Section 3.2.2, and report on performance on our test set.
4.2 Baselines
As this paper revolves around constructing useful feature representations (i.e., embeddings) of the textual information in vacancy
and resumes, we compare several approaches of generating these
embeddings.
4.2.1 Unsupervised. Our first baselines rely on unsupervised feature representations. More specifically, we represent both our vacancies and resumes as either (i) TF-IDF weighted vectors (TFIDF),
or (ii) pre-trained BERT embeddings (BERT).
We then compute cosine similarities between pairs of resumes
and vacancies, and consider the cosine similarity as the predicted
“matching score.” Our TF-IDF vectors have 768 dimensions, which
is equal to the dimensionality of BERT embeddings.3 We fitted our
TF-IDF weights on the training set, comprising both vacancy and
resume data. As described in Section 3.2, we rely on BERT models
pre-trained on Wikipedia from the HuggingFace library [16].
These unsupervised baselines help us to assess the extent to
which the vocabulary gap is problematic, i.e., if vacancies and resumes use completely different words, both bag of words-based
3We experimented with increasing the dimensions of TF-IDF vectors, but it did not
gave any substantial increase in performance (increasing dimensions 3-fold improved
ROC-AUC by +0.7%).
approaches such as TF-IDF weighting and embedding representations of these different words will likely show low similarity.
Formulated differently, if word overlap or proximity between vacancies and resumes is meaningful, these baselines would be able
to perform decently.
4.2.2 Supervised. Next, we present our two supervised baselines,
where we employ a random forest classifier that is trained on top
of the feature representation described above (TFIDF+RF, BERT+RF).
These supervised baselines are trained on our 80% train split, using
the default parameters given by the scikit-learn library [9].
We add these supervised methods and compare them to the
previously described unsupervised baselines to further establish
the extent of the aforementioned vocabulary gap, and the extent
in which the heterogeneous nature of the two types of documents
mentioned in Section 1.1 plays a role. That is to say, if there is a
direct mapping that can be learned from words in one source of
data (vacancy or resume), to the other source, supervised baselines
should be able to pick this up and outperform the unsupervised
baselines.
4.3 conSultantBERT 4
Finally, we present our fine-tuned embedding model; conSultantBERT, which we fine-tune using both the classification objective as
the regression objective, as explained in Section 3.2 and illustrated
in Figure 2.
4The capitalized S in conSultant is a reference to SBERT.
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
# Model ROC-AUC precision recall f1
1. BERT+Cosine 0.5325 0.5057 0.5006 0.3379
2. TFIDF+Cosine 0.5730∗
0.5890 0.5016 0.3564
3. BERT+RF 0.6978 0.6421 0.6363 0.6360
4. TFIDF+RF 0.7174 0.6581 0.6526 0.6527
5. conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine 0.7474 0.7001 0.6426 0.5994
6. conSultantBERTClassifier+RF 0.8366∗
0.7642 0.7643 0.7643
7. conSultantBERTRegressor+Cosine 0.8459∗
0.7714 0.7664 0.7677
8. conSultantBERTRegressor+RF 0.8389 0.7684 0.7658 0.7666
Table 1: Results of different runs. ∗ denotes statistically significant difference from the alternative in the same group at 𝛼 = 0.01.
Best-performing run in bold face.
Our intuition for using the classification objective is our task and
dataset; which consists out of binary class labels, making the classification objective the most obvious choice. At the same time, our
work revolves around searching for meaningful embeddings, not
necessarily solving the end-task in the best possible way, for which,
we hypothesize, the model may benefit from the more fine-grained
information that is present in the cosine similarity optimization
metric.
Similarly to our baselines, we consider (i) our fine-tuned model’s
direct output layer (i.e., the cosine similarity output layer) as “matching score,” between a candidate and a vacancy (conSultantBERTRegressor+Cosine, conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine), in addition to the predictions made by a supervised random forest classifier which we train on the embedding layer’s output (see Figure 2),
yielding the following supervised models: conSultantBERTRegressor+RF and conSultantBERTClassifier+RF. We explore the
latter since we aim to incorporate our model in a production system
alongside other models and features.
4.4 Evaluation
In order to compare our different methods and baselines, we turn
to standard evaluation metrics for classification problems, namely
we consider ROC-AUC as our main metric, as it is insensitive to
thresholding and scale invariant. In addition, we turn to macroaveraged (since our dataset is pretty balanced) precision, recall, and
F1 scores for a deeper understanding of the specific behaviors of
the different methods.
Finally, we perform independent student’s 𝑡-tests for statistical
significance testing, and set the 𝛼-level at 0.01.
5 RESULTS
See Table 1 for the results of our baselines and fine-tuned model.
We first turn to our main evaluation metric ROC-AUC below, and
next to the precision and recall scores in Section 5.2.
5.1 Overall performance
5.1.1 Baselines. As expected, using BERT embeddings or TF-IDF
vectors in an unsupervised manner, i.e., by computing cosine similarity as a matching score, does not perform well. This confirms
our observations about the challenging nature of our domain; word
overlap or semantic proximity/similarity does not seem a sufficiently strong signal for identifying which resumes match a given
vacancy.
At row 3 and 4 we show the methods where a supervised classifier is trained using the input representations described above
(TFIDF+RF and BERT+RF). Here, we see that with a supervised classifier, both TF-IDF-weighted vectors as feature representation and
pre-trained BERT embeddings vastly improve over the unsupervised baselines, with a +31.0% improvement for BERT, and a +25.2%
improvement for the TF-IDF-weighted vectors. This suggests to
some extent, a mapping can be learned between the two types of
documents, as we hypothesized in Section 4.2.
5.1.2 conSultantBERT. Next, we turn to our consultantBERT runs
in rows 5 through 8. First, we consider models trained with the
classification objective, in rows 5 and 6. We note that fine-tuning
BERT brings huge gains over the results the unsupervised pretrained embeddings (BERT+Cosine), which is in line with previous
findings [14]. Even the method that relies on direct cosine similarity
computations on the embeddings learned with the classification
objective (conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine), outperforms our
supervised random forest baselines in rows 3 and 4 with a 7.1% and
4.2% increase in ROC-AUC respectively. Adding a random forest
classifier on top of those fine-tuned embeddings (conSultantBERT
Classifier+RF) even further increases performance with a +11.9%
increase in ROC-AUC over our supervised baseline with pre-trained
embeddings.
As our primary goal is to get high quality embeddings for the
down-stream application of generating useful feature representations for recommendation, alongside of which we can train whatever model we want with additional features types such as categorical, binary, or real-valued features, we are more interested in the
former unsupervised, rather than the latter approach with random
forest classifier.
Finally, we turn to our fine-tuned conSultantBERT with the
regression objective (conSultantBERTRegressor), to study the direct cosine similarity optimization objective. Looking at the last two
rows, we find that conSultantBERT with regression objective performs similarly to conSultantBERT trained with the classification
objective in supervised approach with a random forest classifier
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Lavi et al.
Figure 3: Density plots showing the distribution of Cosine similarity (denoted Cosine) scores (top row) and Random forest
classifier (denoted RF) probability scores (bottom row) per label. Blue lines show the distributions for the negative class, and
orange show distributions for the positive class.
on top. In fact, the small difference turns out not to be statistically
significant with a 𝑝-value of 0.2.
What stands out most, is that the approach with cosine similarity
outperforms all other runs, including significantly outperforming
the conSultantBERTClassifier+RF approach. We explain this difference by the fact the architecture with the classifier objective
having a learnable layer (the Softmax classifier in Figure 2). We
drop this layer after the fine-tuning phase to yield our embeddings,
losing information in the process. On the other hand, the architecture with the regression objective’s had a non-learnable last layer,
namely simply cosine similarity, which means all the necessary
information has to propagate to the embedding layer.
5.2 Precision & Recall
When we zoom into the more fine-grained precision and recall
scores, we observe the following: First, our unsupervised baselines
in row 1 and 2 show how TFIDF-based cosine similarity yields
substantially higher precision compared to cosine similarity with
pre-trained BERT embeddings, keeping similar recall.
Next, these same baselines with a supervised random forest classifier on top (row 3 and 4) show that in both cases the classifiers
seem to perform somewhat similarly, irrespective of whether it is
trained with TFIDF-weighted feature vectors or pre-trained BERT
embeddings. With only a slight increase across precision and recall
(around +2.5%) for the TFIDF-based method, we conclude the feature space in itself does not provide substantially different signals
for separating the classes.
Then, comparing our fine-tuned models, rows 5 and 6 shows
the SBERT model fine-tuned with the classification objective yields
marginally higher precision compared to the random forest classifier trained on the SBERT’s output layer. Row 7 and 8 show similar
stable improvements across the board compared to the methods in
rows 1–4.
Overall, we conclude that all of the supervised approaches (row
3 through 8) show roughly similar behavior with precision and recall balanced and substantial improvements over the unsupervised
baselines.
6 ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION
After analyzing the results in the previous section, in this section
we take a closer look at the different methods, by studying the
distributions of prediction scores across the two labels (positive and
negative matches) in Section 6.1, and we zoom into another desired
property of our embedding space: multilinguality (in Section 6.2)
6.1 Distributions
In Figure 3 we plot the distributions of predicted scores per run, split
out for positive and negative labels. The predicted scores correspond
to cosine similarities in the case of TFIDF, BERT, conSultantBERT*,
and probabilities of the random forest classifier in the case of
TFIDF+RF, BERT+RF, and conSultantBERT*+RF.
A few things stand out, first, it is clear that fine-tuning the BERT
embeddings in our conSultantBERT models yield a clearer separation in the predictions per class. The left-most plots (TFIDF, both
with Cosine similarities) show largely overlapping distributions.
The second column of plots (denoted BERT) shows largely similar
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek m edewerker
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
I worked in a warehouse for 10 years
Ive been an educator for the last 10 years
Ik heb 10 jaar in een m agazijn gewerkt
Ik ben de afgelopen 10 jaar leraar geweest
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
TFIDF
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek m edewerker
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
0.57 0.49 0.46 0.44
0.65 0.66 0.52 0.53
0.56 0.47 0.7 0.67
0.55 0.51 0.65 0.66
BERT
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek m edewerker
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
0.91 0.41 0.76 0.083
0.3 0.86 0.33 0.62
0.89 0.62 0.91 0.23
0.26 0.82 0.37 0.91
conSultantBERTRegressor
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Figure 4: Heatmaps of cosine similarity between sentences from resumes and sentences from vacancies. The English sentences
(first two rows, first two columns) and Dutch sentences (last two rows, last two columns) are each other’s direct translations.
patterns; with as main difference the unsupervised BERT having a
bias towards higher scores compared to the unsupervised TFIDF.
At the same time, while the distributions of scores for each label
from the classifier with TF-IDF weighted vectors or pre-trained
BERT embeddings do seem rather close, the model does succeed in
separating the classes more often than not (as can be seen by the
score improvements over the non-supervised baselines in Table 1).
Observing the latter, though, makes clear that unsupervised
similarity scores using default embeddings or TF-IDF weights does
not allow a strong signal to separate both classes, which can be
witnessed by the largely overlapping score distributions.
We observed the difference in performance between our regressionoptimized conSultantBERT with the classification-optimized one, in
Section 5.1. We now turn to comparing the prediction distributions
of both models. We note how the classification-optimized conSultantBERT (top row, third plot from the left) seems to yield less separable cosine similarity scores compared to the regression-optimized
one (top right plot). Compared to the three other conSultantBERT
approaches, the former stands out. The random forest classifier
trained on top of the embeddings, though, effectively learns again
to separate between the classes, suggesting the embeddings keep
distinguishing information.
6.2 Multilinguality
As a multinational corporate that operates all across the globe, developing a model per language is not scalable in our case. Therefore,
a desired property of our system is multilinguality; a system that
will support as many languages as possible.
In some of the countries we operate, there is a high percentage of
job seekers that are not native to that country. For example, many
of the job descriptions in the Netherlands are in Dutch, however
around 10% of the resumes are in English. Due to that fact another
expected property from our solution is to be cross-lingual [13].
Classic text models, like TF-IDF and Word2vec, capture information within one language, but hardly connect between languages.
Simply put, even if trained on multiple languages each language
will have its own cluster in space. So “logistics” in English and
“logistiek” in Dutch are embedded in a completely different point in
space, even though the meaning is the same.
Furthermore, we know that the language of resume correlates
with nationality and therefore can be a proxy discriminator. Due to
the impact of these systems and the risks of unintended algorithmic
bias and discrimination, HR is marked as a high risk domain in
the recently published EC Artificial Intelligence Act [4]. To avoid
discriminating against nationality we would like to recommend a
candidate to the vacancy no matter which language the resume is
written in. That is of course only if language is not a requirement
for that vacancy.
In Figure 4 we see few examples for sentences that a candidate
might write “I worked ...” and few examples for vacancy “We are
looking for ...”. In order to demonstrate cross lingual and multilingual
the same examples are written in both English and Dutch.
On the left hand side of Figure 4 (TFIDF) we can see that there is
no match at all. This is due to the vocabulary gap, so by definition
TFIDF can not match between “warehouse” and “logistic worker”.
To solve the vocabulary gap we introduced BERT (center of
Figure 4), which we see does find similarity between candidate and
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Lavi et al.
vacancy sentences. However, it also hardly separates between the
positive and negative pairs. Moreover, we can see a slight clustering
around languages, so Dutch sentences have comparitively higher
similarity to Dutch sentences, and likewise English sentences are
more similar to each other.
On the right hand side of Figure 4 (conSultantBERTRegressor)
we observe that the vocabulary gap is bridged, cross-lingual sentences are paired properly (e.g “I worked in a warehouse for 10 years”
and “We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek medewerker”
have high score), and finally, both Dutch to Dutch and English
to English sentences are properly scored, too, thus achieving our
desired property of multilinguality.
7 CONCLUSION
In this work we experimented with various ways to construct embeddings of resume and vacancy texts.
We propose to fine-tune the BERT model using the Siamese
SBERT framework on our large real-world dataset with high quality labels for resume-vacancy matches derived from our consultants’
decisions. We show our model beat our unsupervised and supervised baselines based on TF-IDF features and pre-trained BERT
embeddings. Furthermore, we show it can be applied for multilingual (e.g., English-to-English alongside Dutch-to-Dutch) and crosslingual matching (e.g., English-to-Dutch and vice versa). Finally,
we show that using a regression objective to optimize for cosine
similarity yields more useful embeddings in our scenario, where
we aim to apply the learned embeddings as feature representation
in a broader job recommender system.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Special thanks to the rest of the SmartMatch team: Adam, Evelien,
Najeeb, Sandra, Wilco, Wojciech, and Zeki. And Sepideh for her
helpful comments.
REFERENCES
[1] Vedant Bhatia, Prateek Rawat, Ajit Kumar, and Rajiv Ratn Shah. 2019. End-toEnd Resume Parsing and Finding Candidates for a Job Description using BERT.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.03089
[2] Shuqing Bian, Xu Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Yupeng Hou, Yang Song,
Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2020. Learning to Match Jobs with Resumes
from Sparse Interaction Data using Multi-View Co-Teaching Network. https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2009.13299
[3] Dhivya Chandrasekaran and Vijay Mago. 2021. Evolution of Semantic Similarity—
A Survey. ACM Comput. Surv. 54, 2, Article 41 (Feb. 2021), 37 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3440755
[4] European Commission. 2021. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament
and of the Council Laying Down Harmonised Rules on Artificial Intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act) and Amending Certain Union Legislative Acts : {SEC(2021) 167
Final} - {SWD(2021) 84 Final} - {SWD(2021) 85 Final}. European Commission.
https://books.google.nl/books?id=ofxxzgEACAAJ
[5] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018).
[6] Hebatallah A. Mohamed Hassan, Giuseppe Sansonetti, Fabio Gasparetti, A. Micarelli, and J. Beel. 2019. BERT, ELMo, USE and InferSent Sentence Encoders:
The Panacea for Research-Paper Recommendation?. In RecSys.
[7] Po-Sen Huang, Xiaodong He, Jianfeng Gao, li Deng, Alex Acero, and Larry
Heck. 2013. Learning deep structured semantic models for web search using
clickthrough data. 2333–2338. https://doi.org/10.1145/2505515.2505665
[8] Cataldo Musto, Giovanni Semeraro, Marco de Gemmis, and Pasquale Lops. 2016.
Learning Word Embeddings from Wikipedia for Content-Based Recommender
Systems. In Advances in Information Retrieval, Nicola Ferro, Fabio Crestani, MarieFrancine Moens, Josiane Mothe, Fabrizio Silvestri, Giorgio Maria Di Nunzio,
Claudia Hauff, and Gianmaria Silvello (Eds.). Springer International Publishing,
Cham, 729–734.
[9] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M.
Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay. 2011. Scikit-learn: Machine
Learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research 12 (2011), 2825–2830.
[10] Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Tong Xu, Chen Zhu, Liang Jiang, Enhong Chen, and
Hui Xiong. 2018. Enhancing Person-Job Fit for Talent Recruitment: An Abilityaware Neural Network Approach. The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference
on Research & Development in Information Retrieval (2018).
[11] Rohan Ramanath, Hakan Inan, Gungor Polatkan, Bo Hu, Q. Guo, C. Ozcaglar,
Xianren Wu, K. Kenthapadi, and S. C. Geyik. 2018. Towards Deep and Representation Learning for Talent Search at LinkedIn. Proceedings of the 27th ACM
International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (2018).
[12] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings
using Siamese BERT-Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 3982–3992. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1410
[13] Sebastian Ruder, Ivan Vulić, and Anders Søgaard. 2019. A Survey of CrossLingual Word Embedding Models. J. Artif. Int. Res. 65, 1 (May 2019), 569–630.
https://doi.org/10.1613/jair.1.11640
[14] Chi Sun, Xipeng Qiu, Yige Xu, and Xuanjing Huang. 2019. How to Fine-Tune
BERT for Text Classification?. In Chinese Computational Linguistics, Maosong Sun,
Xuanjing Huang, Heng Ji, Zhiyuan Liu, and Yang Liu (Eds.). Springer International
Publishing, Cham, 194–206.
[15] Jeff Weiner. 2012. The Future of LinkedIn and the Economic Graph. (2012).
[16] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue,
Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe
Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu,
Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest,
and Alexander M. Rush. 2020. HuggingFace’s Transformers: State-of-the-art
Natural Language Processing. arXiv:1910.03771 [cs.CL]
[17] Jing Zhao, Jingya Wang, Madhav Sigdel, Bopeng Zhang, Phuong Hoang, Mengshu
Liu, and Mohammed Korayem. 2021. Embedding-based Recommender System
for Job to Candidate Matching on Scale. https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00221
[18] Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, Chao Ma, Fang Xie, Pengliang Ding, and
Pan Li. 2018. Person-Job Fit: Adapting the Right Talent for the Right Job with
Joint Representation Learning. https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04040
Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks
Patrick Lewis†‡, Ethan Perez?
,
Aleksandra Piktus†
, Fabio Petroni†
, Vladimir Karpukhin†
, Naman Goyal†
, Heinrich Küttler†
,
Mike Lewis†
, Wen-tau Yih†
, Tim Rocktäschel†‡, Sebastian Riedel†‡, Douwe Kiela†
†Facebook AI Research; ‡University College London; ?New York University;
plewis@fb.com
Abstract
Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge
in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when fine-tuned on downstream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowledge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive tasks, their performance
lags behind task-specific architectures. Additionally, providing provenance for their
decisions and updating their world knowledge remain open research problems. Pretrained models with a differentiable access mechanism to explicit non-parametric
memory have so far been only investigated for extractive downstream tasks. We
explore a general-purpose fine-tuning recipe for retrieval-augmented generation
(RAG) — models which combine pre-trained parametric and non-parametric memory for language generation. We introduce RAG models where the parametric
memory is a pre-trained seq2seq model and the non-parametric memory is a dense
vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural retriever. We compare two RAG formulations, one which conditions on the same retrieved passages
across the whole generated sequence, and another which can use different passages
per token. We fine-tune and evaluate our models on a wide range of knowledgeintensive NLP tasks and set the state of the art on three open domain QA tasks,
outperforming parametric seq2seq models and task-specific retrieve-and-extract
architectures. For language generation tasks, we find that RAG models generate
more specific, diverse and factual language than a state-of-the-art parametric-only
seq2seq baseline.
1 Introduction
Pre-trained neural language models have been shown to learn a substantial amount of in-depth knowledge from data [47]. They can do so without any access to an external memory, as a parameterized
implicit knowledge base [51, 52]. While this development is exciting, such models do have downsides: They cannot easily expand or revise their memory, can’t straightforwardly provide insight into
their predictions, and may produce “hallucinations” [38]. Hybrid models that combine parametric
memory with non-parametric (i.e., retrieval-based) memories [20, 26, 48] can address some of these
issues because knowledge can be directly revised and expanded, and accessed knowledge can be
inspected and interpreted. REALM [20] and ORQA [31], two recently introduced models that
combine masked language models [8] with a differentiable retriever, have shown promising results,
arXiv:2005.11401v4 [cs.CL] 12 Apr 2021
The	Divine
Comedy	(x) q
Query
Encoder
q(x)
MIPS pθ
Generator pθ
(Parametric)
Marginalize
This	14th	century	work
is	divided	into	3
sections:	"Inferno",
"Purgatorio"	&
"Paradiso"									(y)
End-to-End Backprop through q and pθ
Barack	Obama	was
born	in	Hawaii.(x)
Fact Verification: Fact Query
supports (y)
Question Generation
Fact Verification:
Label Generation
Document
Index
Define	"middle	ear"(x)
Question Answering:
Question Query
The	middle	ear	includes
the	tympanic	cavity	and
the	three	ossicles.		(y)
Question Answering:
Answer Generation Retriever pη
(Non-Parametric)
z4
z3
z2
z1
d(z)
Jeopardy Question
Generation:
Answer Query
Figure 1: Overview of our approach. We combine a pre-trained retriever (Query Encoder + Document
Index) with a pre-trained seq2seq model (Generator) and fine-tune end-to-end. For query x, we use
Maximum Inner Product Search (MIPS) to find the top-K documents zi
. For final prediction y, we
treat z as a latent variable and marginalize over seq2seq predictions given different documents.
but have only explored open-domain extractive question answering. Here, we bring hybrid parametric
and non-parametric memory to the “workhorse of NLP,” i.e. sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models.
We endow pre-trained, parametric-memory generation models with a non-parametric memory through
a general-purpose fine-tuning approach which we refer to as retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
We build RAG models where the parametric memory is a pre-trained seq2seq transformer, and the
non-parametric memory is a dense vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural
retriever. We combine these components in a probabilistic model trained end-to-end (Fig. 1). The
retriever (Dense Passage Retriever [26], henceforth DPR) provides latent documents conditioned on
the input, and the seq2seq model (BART [32]) then conditions on these latent documents together with
the input to generate the output. We marginalize the latent documents with a top-K approximation,
either on a per-output basis (assuming the same document is responsible for all tokens) or a per-token
basis (where different documents are responsible for different tokens). Like T5 [51] or BART, RAG
can be fine-tuned on any seq2seq task, whereby both the generator and retriever are jointly learned.
There has been extensive previous work proposing architectures to enrich systems with non-parametric
memory which are trained from scratch for specific tasks, e.g. memory networks [64, 55], stackaugmented networks [25] and memory layers [30]. In contrast, we explore a setting where both
parametric and non-parametric memory components are pre-trained and pre-loaded with extensive
knowledge. Crucially, by using pre-trained access mechanisms, the ability to access knowledge is
present without additional training.
Our results highlight the benefits of combining parametric and non-parametric memory with generation for knowledge-intensive tasks—tasks that humans could not reasonably be expected to perform
without access to an external knowledge source. Our RAG models achieve state-of-the-art results
on open Natural Questions [29], WebQuestions [3] and CuratedTrec [2] and strongly outperform
recent approaches that use specialised pre-training objectives on TriviaQA [24]. Despite these being
extractive tasks, we find that unconstrained generation outperforms previous extractive approaches.
For knowledge-intensive generation, we experiment with MS-MARCO [1] and Jeopardy question
generation, and we find that our models generate responses that are more factual, specific, and
diverse than a BART baseline. For FEVER [56] fact verification, we achieve results within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art pipeline models which use strong retrieval supervision. Finally, we demonstrate that
the non-parametric memory can be replaced to update the models’ knowledge as the world changes.1
2 Methods
We explore RAG models, which use the input sequence x to retrieve text documents z and use them
as additional context when generating the target sequence y. As shown in Figure 1, our models
leverage two components: (i) a retriever pη(z|x) with parameters η that returns (top-K truncated)
distributions over text passages given a query x and (ii) a generator pθ(yi
|x, z, y1:i−1) parametrized
1Code to run experiments with RAG has been open-sourced as part of the HuggingFace Transformers Library [66] and can be found at https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/master/
examples/rag/. An interactive demo of RAG models can be found at https://huggingface.co/rag/
2
by θ that generates a current token based on a context of the previous i − 1 tokens y1:i−1, the original
input x and a retrieved passage z.
To train the retriever and generator end-to-end, we treat the retrieved document as a latent variable.
We propose two models that marginalize over the latent documents in different ways to produce a
distribution over generated text. In one approach, RAG-Sequence, the model uses the same document
to predict each target token. The second approach, RAG-Token, can predict each target token based
on a different document. In the following, we formally introduce both models and then describe the
pη and pθ components, as well as the training and decoding procedure.
2.1 Models
RAG-Sequence Model The RAG-Sequence model uses the same retrieved document to generate
the complete sequence. Technically, it treats the retrieved document as a single latent variable that
is marginalized to get the seq2seq probability p(y|x) via a top-K approximation. Concretely, the
top K documents are retrieved using the retriever, and the generator produces the output sequence
probability for each document, which are then marginalized,
pRAG-Sequence(y|x) ≈
X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)pθ(y|x, z) = X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)
Y
N
i
pθ(yi
|x, z, y1:i−1)
RAG-Token Model In the RAG-Token model we can draw a different latent document for each
target token and marginalize accordingly. This allows the generator to choose content from several
documents when producing an answer. Concretely, the top K documents are retrieved using the
retriever, and then the generator produces a distribution for the next output token for each document,
before marginalizing, and repeating the process with the following output token, Formally, we define:
pRAG-Token(y|x) ≈
Y
N
i
X
z∈top-k(p(·|x))
pη(z|x)pθ(yi
|x, z, y1:i−1)
Finally, we note that RAG can be used for sequence classification tasks by considering the target class
as a target sequence of length one, in which case RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token are equivalent.
2.2 Retriever: DPR
The retrieval component pη(z|x) is based on DPR [26]. DPR follows a bi-encoder architecture:
pη(z|x) ∝ exp
d(z)
>q(x)

d(z) = BERTd(z), q(x) = BERTq(x)
where d(z) is a dense representation of a document produced by a BERTBASE document encoder [8],
and q(x) a query representation produced by a query encoder, also based on BERTBASE. Calculating
top-k(pη(·|x)), the list of k documents z with highest prior probability pη(z|x), is a Maximum Inner
Product Search (MIPS) problem, which can be approximately solved in sub-linear time [23]. We use
a pre-trained bi-encoder from DPR to initialize our retriever and to build the document index. This
retriever was trained to retrieve documents which contain answers to TriviaQA [24] questions and
Natural Questions [29]. We refer to the document index as the non-parametric memory.
2.3 Generator: BART
The generator component pθ(yi
|x, z, y1:i−1) could be modelled using any encoder-decoder. We use
BART-large [32], a pre-trained seq2seq transformer [58] with 400M parameters. To combine the input
x with the retrieved content z when generating from BART, we simply concatenate them. BART was
pre-trained using a denoising objective and a variety of different noising functions. It has obtained
state-of-the-art results on a diverse set of generation tasks and outperforms comparably-sized T5
models [32]. We refer to the BART generator parameters θ as the parametric memory henceforth.
2.4 Training
We jointly train the retriever and generator components without any direct supervision on what
document should be retrieved. Given a fine-tuning training corpus of input/output pairs (xj , yj ), we
3
minimize the negative marginal log-likelihood of each target, P
j − log p(yj |xj ) using stochastic
gradient descent with Adam [28]. Updating the document encoder BERTd during training is costly as
it requires the document index to be periodically updated as REALM does during pre-training [20].
We do not find this step necessary for strong performance, and keep the document encoder (and
index) fixed, only fine-tuning the query encoder BERTq and the BART generator.
2.5 Decoding
At test time, RAG-Sequence and RAG-Token require different ways to approximate arg maxy p(y|x).
RAG-Token The RAG-Token model can be seen as a standard, autoregressive seq2seq generator with transition probability: p
0
θ
(yi
|x, y1:i−1) = P
z∈top-k(p(·|x)) pη(zi
|x)pθ(yi
|x, zi
, y1:i−1) To
decode, we can plug p
0
θ
(yi
|x, y1:i−1) into a standard beam decoder.
RAG-Sequence For RAG-Sequence, the likelihood p(y|x) does not break into a conventional pertoken likelihood, hence we cannot solve it with a single beam search. Instead, we run beam search for
each document z, scoring each hypothesis using pθ(yi
|x, z, y1:i−1). This yields a set of hypotheses
Y , some of which may not have appeared in the beams of all documents. To estimate the probability
of an hypothesis y we run an additional forward pass for each document z for which y does not
appear in the beam, multiply generator probability with pη(z|x) and then sum the probabilities across
beams for the marginals. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Thorough Decoding.” For longer
output sequences, |Y | can become large, requiring many forward passes. For more efficient decoding,
we can make a further approximation that pθ(y|x, zi) ≈ 0 where y was not generated during beam
search from x, zi
. This avoids the need to run additional forward passes once the candidate set Y has
been generated. We refer to this decoding procedure as “Fast Decoding.”
3 Experiments
We experiment with RAG in a wide range of knowledge-intensive tasks. For all experiments, we use
a single Wikipedia dump for our non-parametric knowledge source. Following Lee et al. [31] and
Karpukhin et al. [26], we use the December 2018 dump. Each Wikipedia article is split into disjoint
100-word chunks, to make a total of 21M documents. We use the document encoder to compute an
embedding for each document, and build a single MIPS index using FAISS [23] with a Hierarchical
Navigable Small World approximation for fast retrieval [37]. During training, we retrieve the top
k documents for each query. We consider k ∈ {5, 10} for training and set k for test time using dev
data. We now discuss experimental details for each task.
3.1 Open-domain Question Answering
Open-domain question answering (QA) is an important real-world application and common testbed
for knowledge-intensive tasks [20]. We treat questions and answers as input-output text pairs (x, y)
and train RAG by directly minimizing the negative log-likelihood of answers. We compare RAG to
the popular extractive QA paradigm [5, 7, 31, 26], where answers are extracted spans from retrieved
documents, relying primarily on non-parametric knowledge. We also compare to “Closed-Book
QA” approaches [52], which, like RAG, generate answers, but which do not exploit retrieval, instead
relying purely on parametric knowledge. We consider four popular open-domain QA datasets: Natural
Questions (NQ) [29], TriviaQA (TQA) [24]. WebQuestions (WQ) [3] and CuratedTrec (CT) [2]. As
CT and WQ are small, we follow DPR [26] by initializing CT and WQ models with our NQ RAG
model. We use the same train/dev/test splits as prior work [31, 26] and report Exact Match (EM)
scores. For TQA, to compare with T5 [52], we also evaluate on the TQA Wiki test set.
3.2 Abstractive Question Answering
RAG models can go beyond simple extractive QA and answer questions with free-form, abstractive
text generation. To test RAG’s natural language generation (NLG) in a knowledge-intensive setting,
we use the MSMARCO NLG task v2.1 [43]. The task consists of questions, ten gold passages
retrieved from a search engine for each question, and a full sentence answer annotated from the
retrieved passages. We do not use the supplied passages, only the questions and answers, to treat
4
MSMARCO as an open-domain abstractive QA task. MSMARCO has some questions that cannot be
answered in a way that matches the reference answer without access to the gold passages, such as
“What is the weather in Volcano, CA?” so performance will be lower without using gold passages.
We also note that some MSMARCO questions cannot be answered using Wikipedia alone. Here,
RAG can rely on parametric knowledge to generate reasonable responses.
3.3 Jeopardy Question Generation
To evaluate RAG’s generation abilities in a non-QA setting, we study open-domain question generation. Rather than use questions from standard open-domain QA tasks, which typically consist
of short, simple questions, we propose the more demanding task of generating Jeopardy questions.
Jeopardy is an unusual format that consists of trying to guess an entity from a fact about that entity.
For example, “The World Cup” is the answer to the question “In 1986 Mexico scored as the first
country to host this international sports competition twice.” As Jeopardy questions are precise,
factual statements, generating Jeopardy questions conditioned on their answer entities constitutes a
challenging knowledge-intensive generation task.
We use the splits from SearchQA [10], with 100K train, 14K dev, and 27K test examples. As
this is a new task, we train a BART model for comparison. Following [67], we evaluate using the
SQuAD-tuned Q-BLEU-1 metric [42]. Q-BLEU is a variant of BLEU with a higher weight for
matching entities and has higher correlation with human judgment for question generation than
standard metrics. We also perform two human evaluations, one to assess generation factuality, and
one for specificity. We define factuality as whether a statement can be corroborated by trusted external
sources, and specificity as high mutual dependence between the input and output [33]. We follow
best practice and use pairwise comparative evaluation [34]. Evaluators are shown an answer and two
generated questions, one from BART and one from RAG. They are then asked to pick one of four
options—quuestion A is better, question B is better, both are good, or neither is good.
3.4 Fact Verification
FEVER [56] requires classifying whether a natural language claim is supported or refuted by
Wikipedia, or whether there is not enough information to decide. The task requires retrieving
evidence from Wikipedia relating to the claim and then reasoning over this evidence to classify
whether the claim is true, false, or unverifiable from Wikipedia alone. FEVER is a retrieval problem
coupled with an challenging entailment reasoning task. It also provides an appropriate testbed for
exploring the RAG models’ ability to handle classification rather than generation. We map FEVER
class labels (supports, refutes, or not enough info) to single output tokens and directly train with
claim-class pairs. Crucially, unlike most other approaches to FEVER, we do not use supervision on
retrieved evidence. In many real-world applications, retrieval supervision signals aren’t available, and
models that do not require such supervision will be applicable to a wider range of tasks. We explore
two variants: the standard 3-way classification task (supports/refutes/not enough info) and the 2-way
(supports/refutes) task studied in Thorne and Vlachos [57]. In both cases we report label accuracy.
4 Results
4.1 Open-domain Question Answering
Table 1 shows results for RAG along with state-of-the-art models. On all four open-domain QA
tasks, RAG sets a new state of the art (only on the T5-comparable split for TQA). RAG combines
the generation flexibility of the “closed-book” (parametric only) approaches and the performance of
"open-book" retrieval-based approaches. Unlike REALM and T5+SSM, RAG enjoys strong results
without expensive, specialized “salient span masking” pre-training [20]. It is worth noting that RAG’s
retriever is initialized using DPR’s retriever, which uses retrieval supervision on Natural Questions
and TriviaQA. RAG compares favourably to the DPR QA system, which uses a BERT-based “crossencoder” to re-rank documents, along with an extractive reader. RAG demonstrates that neither a
re-ranker nor extractive reader is necessary for state-of-the-art performance.
There are several advantages to generating answers even when it is possible to extract them. Documents with clues about the answer but do not contain the answer verbatim can still contribute towards
a correct answer being generated, which is not possible with standard extractive approaches, leading
5
Table 1: Open-Domain QA Test Scores. For TQA,
left column uses the standard test set for OpenDomain QA, right column uses the TQA-Wiki
test set. See Appendix D for further details.
Model NQ TQA WQ CT
Closed
Book
T5-11B [52] 34.5 - /50.1 37.4 -
T5-11B+SSM[52] 36.6 - /60.5 44.7 -
Open
Book
REALM [20] 40.4 - / - 40.7 46.8
DPR [26] 41.5 57.9/ - 41.1 50.6
RAG-Token 44.1 55.2/66.1 45.5 50.0
RAG-Seq. 44.5 56.8/68.0 45.2 52.2
Table 2: Generation and classification Test Scores.
MS-MARCO SotA is [4], FEVER-3 is [68] and
FEVER-2 is [57] *Uses gold context/evidence.
Best model without gold access underlined.
Model Jeopardy MSMARCO FVR3 FVR2
B-1 QB-1 R-L B-1 Label Acc.
SotA - - 49.8* 49.9* 76.8 92.2*
BART 15.1 19.7 38.2 41.6 64.0 81.1
RAG-Tok. 17.3 22.2 40.1 41.5 72.5 89.5 RAG-Seq. 14.7 21.4 40.8 44.2
to more effective marginalization over documents. Furthermore, RAG can generate correct answers
even when the correct answer is not in any retrieved document, achieving 11.8% accuracy in such
cases for NQ, where an extractive model would score 0%.
4.2 Abstractive Question Answering
As shown in Table 2, RAG-Sequence outperforms BART on Open MS-MARCO NLG by 2.6 Bleu
points and 2.6 Rouge-L points. RAG approaches state-of-the-art model performance, which is
impressive given that (i) those models access gold passages with specific information required to
generate the reference answer , (ii) many questions are unanswerable without the gold passages, and
(iii) not all questions are answerable from Wikipedia alone. Table 3 shows some generated answers
from our models. Qualitatively, we find that RAG models hallucinate less and generate factually
correct text more often than BART. Later, we also show that RAG generations are more diverse than
BART generations (see §4.5).
4.3 Jeopardy Question Generation
Table 2 shows that RAG-Token performs better than RAG-Sequence on Jeopardy question generation,
with both models outperforming BART on Q-BLEU-1. 4 shows human evaluation results, over 452
pairs of generations from BART and RAG-Token. Evaluators indicated that BART was more factual
than RAG in only 7.1% of cases, while RAG was more factual in 42.7% of cases, and both RAG and
BART were factual in a further 17% of cases, clearly demonstrating the effectiveness of RAG on
the task over a state-of-the-art generation model. Evaluators also find RAG generations to be more
specific by a large margin. Table 3 shows typical generations from each model.
Jeopardy questions often contain two separate pieces of information, and RAG-Token may perform
best because it can generate responses that combine content from several documents. Figure 2 shows
an example. When generating “Sun”, the posterior is high for document 2 which mentions “The
Sun Also Rises”. Similarly, document 1 dominates the posterior when “A Farewell to Arms” is
generated. Intriguingly, after the first token of each book is generated, the document posterior flattens.
This observation suggests that the generator can complete the titles without depending on specific
documents. In other words, the model’s parametric knowledge is sufficient to complete the titles. We
find evidence for this hypothesis by feeding the BART-only baseline with the partial decoding "The
Sun. BART completes the generation "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "The Sun
Also Rises" indicating the title "The Sun Also Rises" is stored in BART’s parameters. Similarly,
BART will complete the partial decoding "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A
with "The Sun Also Rises" is a novel by this author of "A Farewell to Arms". This example shows
how parametric and non-parametric memories work together—the non-parametric component helps
to guide the generation, drawing out specific knowledge stored in the parametric memory.
4.4 Fact Verification
Table 2 shows our results on FEVER. For 3-way classification, RAG scores are within 4.3% of
state-of-the-art models, which are complex pipeline systems with domain-specific architectures and
substantial engineering, trained using intermediate retrieval supervision, which RAG does not require.
6
Document 1: his works are considered classics of American
literature ... His wartime experiences formed the basis for his novel
”A Farewell to Arms” (1929) ...
Document 2: ... artists of the 1920s ”Lost Generation” expatriate
community. His debut novel, ”The Sun Also Rises”, was published
in 1926.
BOS ”
The
Sun
AlsoR
ises ”
is
a
novelby
this
authorof
”
A
Fare
wellto
Arms”
Doc 1
Doc 2
Doc 3
Doc 4
Doc 5
Figure 2: RAG-Token document posterior p(zi
|x, yi
, y−i) for each generated token for input “Hemingway" for Jeopardy generation with 5 retrieved documents. The posterior for document 1 is high
when generating “A Farewell to Arms" and for document 2 when generating “The Sun Also Rises".
Table 3: Examples from generation tasks. RAG models generate more specific and factually accurate
responses. ‘?’ indicates factually incorrect responses, * indicates partially correct responses.
Task Input Model Generation
MSMARCO
define middle
ear
BART ?The middle ear is the part of the ear between the middle ear and the nose.
RAG-T The middle ear is the portion of the ear internal to the eardrum.
RAG-S The middle ear includes the tympanic cavity and the three ossicles.
what currency
needed in
scotland
BART The currency needed in Scotland is Pound sterling.
RAG-T Pound is the currency needed in Scotland.
RAG-S The currency needed in Scotland is the pound sterling.
Jeopardy
Question
Gener
-ation
Washington
BART ?This state has the largest number of counties in the U.S.
RAG-T It’s the only U.S. state named for a U.S. president
RAG-S It’s the state where you’ll find Mount Rainier National Park
The Divine
Comedy
BART *This epic poem by Dante is divided into 3 parts: the Inferno, the Purgatorio & the Purgatorio
RAG-T Dante’s "Inferno" is the first part of this epic poem
RAG-S This 14th century work is divided into 3 sections: "Inferno", "Purgatorio" & "Paradiso"
For 2-way classification, we compare against Thorne and Vlachos [57], who train RoBERTa [35]
to classify the claim as true or false given the gold evidence sentence. RAG achieves an accuracy
within 2.7% of this model, despite being supplied with only the claim and retrieving its own evidence.
We also analyze whether documents retrieved by RAG correspond to documents annotated as gold
evidence in FEVER. We calculate the overlap in article titles between the top k documents retrieved
by RAG and gold evidence annotations. We find that the top retrieved document is from a gold article
in 71% of cases, and a gold article is present in the top 10 retrieved articles in 90% of cases.
4.5 Additional Results
Generation Diversity Section 4.3 shows that RAG models are more factual and specific than
BART for Jeopardy question generation. Following recent work on diversity-promoting decoding
[33, 59, 39], we also investigate generation diversity by calculating the ratio of distinct ngrams to
total ngrams generated by different models. Table 5 shows that RAG-Sequence’s generations are
more diverse than RAG-Token’s, and both are significantly more diverse than BART without needing
any diversity-promoting decoding.
Retrieval Ablations A key feature of RAG is learning to retrieve relevant information for the task.
To assess the effectiveness of the retrieval mechanism, we run ablations where we freeze the retriever
during training. As shown in Table 6, learned retrieval improves results for all tasks.
We compare RAG’s dense retriever to a word overlap-based BM25 retriever [53]. Here, we replace
RAG’s retriever with a fixed BM25 system, and use BM25 retrieval scores as logits when calculating
p(z|x). Table 6 shows the results. For FEVER, BM25 performs best, perhaps since FEVER claims are
heavily entity-centric and thus well-suited for word overlap-based retrieval. Differentiable retrieval
improves results on all other tasks, especially for Open-Domain QA, where it is crucial.
Index hot-swapping An advantage of non-parametric memory models like RAG is that knowledge
can be easily updated at test time. Parametric-only models like T5 or BART need further training to
update their behavior as the world changes. To demonstrate, we build an index using the DrQA [5]
Wikipedia dump from December 2016 and compare outputs from RAG using this index to the newer
index from our main results (December 2018). We prepare a list of 82 world leaders who had changed
7
Table 4: Human assessments for the Jeopardy
Question Generation Task.
Factuality Specificity
BART better 7.1% 16.8%
RAG better 42.7% 37.4%
Both good 11.7% 11.8%
Both poor 17.7% 6.9%
No majority 20.8% 20.1%
Table 5: Ratio of distinct to total tri-grams for
generation tasks.
MSMARCO Jeopardy QGen
Gold 89.6% 90.0%
BART 70.7% 32.4%
RAG-Token 77.8% 46.8%
RAG-Seq. 83.5% 53.8%
Table 6: Ablations on the dev set. As FEVER is a classification task, both RAG models are equivalent.
Model NQ TQA WQ CT Jeopardy-QGen MSMarco FVR-3 FVR-2
Exact Match B-1 QB-1 R-L B-1 Label Accuracy
RAG-Token-BM25 29.7 41.5 32.1 33.1 17.5 22.3 55.5 48.4 75.1 91.6 RAG-Sequence-BM25 31.8 44.1 36.6 33.8 11.1 19.5 56.5 46.9
RAG-Token-Frozen 37.8 50.1 37.1 51.1 16.7 21.7 55.9 49.4 72.9 89.4 RAG-Sequence-Frozen 41.2 52.1 41.8 52.6 11.8 19.6 56.7 47.3
RAG-Token 43.5 54.8 46.5 51.9 17.9 22.6 56.2 49.4 74.5 90.6 RAG-Sequence 44.0 55.8 44.9 53.4 15.3 21.5 57.2 47.5
between these dates and use a template “Who is {position}?” (e.g. “Who is the President of Peru?”)
to query our NQ RAG model with each index. RAG answers 70% correctly using the 2016 index for
2016 world leaders and 68% using the 2018 index for 2018 world leaders. Accuracy with mismatched
indices is low (12% with the 2018 index and 2016 leaders, 4% with the 2016 index and 2018 leaders).
This shows we can update RAG’s world knowledge by simply replacing its non-parametric memory.
Effect of Retrieving more documents Models are trained with either 5 or 10 retrieved latent
documents, and we do not observe significant differences in performance between them. We have the
flexibility to adjust the number of retrieved documents at test time, which can affect performance and
runtime. Figure 3 (left) shows that retrieving more documents at test time monotonically improves
Open-domain QA results for RAG-Sequence, but performance peaks for RAG-Token at 10 retrieved
documents. Figure 3 (right) shows that retrieving more documents leads to higher Rouge-L for
RAG-Token at the expense of Bleu-1, but the effect is less pronounced for RAG-Sequence.
10 20 30 40 50
KRetrievedDocs
39
40
41
42
43
44
NQ Exact Match
RAG-Tok
RAG-Seq
10 20 30 40 50
KRetrievedDocs
40
50
60
70
80
NQ Answer Recall @ K
RAG-Tok
RAG-Seq
Fixed DPR
BM25
10 20 30 40 50
KRetrievedDocs
48
50
52
54
56
Bleu-1 / Rouge-L score
RAG-Tok R-L
RAG-Tok B-1
RAG-Seq R-L
RAG-Seq B-1
Figure 3: Left: NQ performance as more documents are retrieved. Center: Retrieval recall performance in NQ. Right: MS-MARCO Bleu-1 and Rouge-L as more documents are retrieved.
5 Related Work
Single-Task Retrieval Prior work has shown that retrieval improves performance across a variety of
NLP tasks when considered in isolation. Such tasks include open-domain question answering [5, 29],
fact checking [56], fact completion [48], long-form question answering [12], Wikipedia article
generation [36], dialogue [41, 65, 9, 13], translation [17], and language modeling [19, 27]. Our
work unifies previous successes in incorporating retrieval into individual tasks, showing that a single
retrieval-based architecture is capable of achieving strong performance across several tasks.
8
General-Purpose Architectures for NLP Prior work on general-purpose architectures for NLP
tasks has shown great success without the use of retrieval. A single, pre-trained language model
has been shown to achieve strong performance on various classification tasks in the GLUE benchmarks [60, 61] after fine-tuning [49, 8]. GPT-2 [50] later showed that a single, left-to-right, pre-trained
language model could achieve strong performance across both discriminative and generative tasks.
For further improvement, BART [32] and T5 [51, 52] propose a single, pre-trained encoder-decoder
model that leverages bi-directional attention to achieve stronger performance on discriminative
and generative tasks. Our work aims to expand the space of possible tasks with a single, unified
architecture, by learning a retrieval module to augment pre-trained, generative language models.
Learned Retrieval There is significant work on learning to retrieve documents in information
retrieval, more recently with pre-trained, neural language models [44, 26] similar to ours. Some
work optimizes the retrieval module to aid in a specific, downstream task such as question answering,
using search [46], reinforcement learning [6, 63, 62], or a latent variable approach [31, 20] as in our
work. These successes leverage different retrieval-based architectures and optimization techniques to
achieve strong performance on a single task, while we show that a single retrieval-based architecture
can be fine-tuned for strong performance on a variety of tasks.
Memory-based Architectures Our document index can be seen as a large external memory for
neural networks to attend to, analogous to memory networks [64, 55]. Concurrent work [14] learns
to retrieve a trained embedding for each entity in the input, rather than to retrieve raw text as in our
work. Other work improves the ability of dialog models to generate factual text by attending over
fact embeddings [15, 13]. A key feature of our memory is that it is comprised of raw text rather
distributed representations, which makes the memory both (i) human-readable, lending a form of
interpretability to our model, and (ii) human-writable, enabling us to dynamically update the model’s
memory by editing the document index. This approach has also been used in knowledge-intensive
dialog, where generators have been conditioned on retrieved text directly, albeit obtained via TF-IDF
rather than end-to-end learnt retrieval [9].
Retrieve-and-Edit approaches Our method shares some similarities with retrieve-and-edit style
approaches, where a similar training input-output pair is retrieved for a given input, and then edited
to provide a final output. These approaches have proved successful in a number of domains including
Machine Translation [18, 22] and Semantic Parsing [21]. Our approach does have several differences,
including less of emphasis on lightly editing a retrieved item, but on aggregating content from several
pieces of retrieved content, as well as learning latent retrieval, and retrieving evidence documents
rather than related training pairs. This said, RAG techniques may work well in these settings, and
could represent promising future work.
6 Discussion
In this work, we presented hybrid generation models with access to parametric and non-parametric
memory. We showed that our RAG models obtain state of the art results on open-domain QA. We
found that people prefer RAG’s generation over purely parametric BART, finding RAG more factual
and specific. We conducted an thorough investigation of the learned retrieval component, validating
its effectiveness, and we illustrated how the retrieval index can be hot-swapped to update the model
without requiring any retraining. In future work, it may be fruitful to investigate if the two components
can be jointly pre-trained from scratch, either with a denoising objective similar to BART or some
another objective. Our work opens up new research directions on how parametric and non-parametric
memories interact and how to most effectively combine them, showing promise in being applied to a
wide variety of NLP tasks.
9
Broader Impact
This work offers several positive societal benefits over previous work: the fact that it is more
strongly grounded in real factual knowledge (in this case Wikipedia) makes it “hallucinate” less
with generations that are more factual, and offers more control and interpretability. RAG could be
employed in a wide variety of scenarios with direct benefit to society, for example by endowing it
with a medical index and asking it open-domain questions on that topic, or by helping people be more
effective at their jobs.
With these advantages also come potential downsides: Wikipedia, or any potential external knowledge
source, will probably never be entirely factual and completely devoid of bias. Since RAG can be
employed as a language model, similar concerns as for GPT-2 [50] are valid here, although arguably
to a lesser extent, including that it might be used to generate abuse, faked or misleading content in
the news or on social media; to impersonate others; or to automate the production of spam/phishing
content [54]. Advanced language models may also lead to the automation of various jobs in the
coming decades [16]. In order to mitigate these risks, AI systems could be employed to fight against
misleading content and automated spam/phishing.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank the reviewers for their thoughtful and constructive feedback on this
paper, as well as HuggingFace for their help in open-sourcing code to run RAG models. The authors
would also like to thank Kyunghyun Cho and Sewon Min for productive discussions and advice. EP
thanks supports from the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship. PL is supported by the FAIR PhD
program.
References
[1] Payal Bajaj, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Li Deng, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong Liu, Rangan
Majumder, Andrew McNamara, Bhaskar Mitra, Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Alina
Stoica, Saurabh Tiwary, and Tong Wang. MS MARCO: A Human Generated MAchine
Reading COmprehension Dataset. arXiv:1611.09268 [cs], November 2016. URL http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1611.09268. arXiv: 1611.09268.
[2] Petr Baudiš and Jan Šedivy. Modeling of the question answering task in the yodaqa system. In `
International Conference of the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum for European Languages,
pages 222–228. Springer, 2015. URL https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%
2F978-3-319-24027-5_20.
[3] Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy Liang. Semantic Parsing on Freebase
from Question-Answer Pairs. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 1533–1544, Seattle, Washington, USA, October 2013.
Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
D13-1160.
[4] Bin Bi, Chenliang Li, Chen Wu, Ming Yan, and Wei Wang. Palm: Pre-training an autoencoding&autoregressive language model for context-conditioned generation. ArXiv, abs/2004.07159,
2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.07159.
[5] Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine Bordes. Reading Wikipedia to Answer
Open-Domain Questions. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1870–1879, Vancouver, Canada,
July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/P17-1171. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P17-1171.
[6] Eunsol Choi, Daniel Hewlett, Jakob Uszkoreit, Illia Polosukhin, Alexandre Lacoste, and
Jonathan Berant. Coarse-to-fine question answering for long documents. In Proceedings of the
55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 209–220, Vancouver, Canada, July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
10.18653/v1/P17-1020. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P17-1020.
10
[7] Christopher Clark and Matt Gardner. Simple and Effective Multi-Paragraph Reading Comprehension. arXiv:1710.10723 [cs], October 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.10723.
arXiv: 1710.10723.
[8] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training of
Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N19-1423.
URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423.
[9] Emily Dinan, Stephen Roller, Kurt Shuster, Angela Fan, Michael Auli, and Jason Weston. Wizard of wikipedia: Knowledge-powered conversational agents. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2019. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=r1l73iRqKm.
[10] Matthew Dunn, Levent Sagun, Mike Higgins, V. Ugur Guney, Volkan Cirik, and Kyunghyun
Cho. SearchQA: A New Q&A Dataset Augmented with Context from a Search Engine.
arXiv:1704.05179 [cs], April 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.05179. arXiv:
1704.05179.
[11] Angela Fan, Mike Lewis, and Yann Dauphin. Hierarchical neural story generation. In Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 889–898, Melbourne, Australia, July 2018. Association for Computational
Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/P18-1082. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
P18-1082.
[12] Angela Fan, Yacine Jernite, Ethan Perez, David Grangier, Jason Weston, and Michael Auli. ELI5:
Long form question answering. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, pages 3558–3567, Florence, Italy, July 2019. Association for
Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/P19-1346. URL https://www.aclweb.org/
anthology/P19-1346.
[13] Angela Fan, Claire Gardent, Chloe Braud, and Antoine Bordes. Augmenting transformers
with KNN-based composite memory, 2020. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
H1gx1CNKPH.
[14] Thibault Févry, Livio Baldini Soares, Nicholas FitzGerald, Eunsol Choi, and Tom Kwiatkowski.
Entities as experts: Sparse memory access with entity supervision. ArXiv, abs/2004.07202,
2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.07202.
[15] Marjan Ghazvininejad, Chris Brockett, Ming-Wei Chang, Bill Dolan, Jianfeng Gao, Wen
tau Yih, and Michel Galley. A knowledge-grounded neural conversation model. In AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2018. URL https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/
AAAI/AAAI18/paper/view/16710.
[16] Katja Grace, John Salvatier, Allan Dafoe, Baobao Zhang, and Owain Evans. When will AI
exceed human performance? evidence from AI experts. CoRR, abs/1705.08807, 2017. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.08807.
[17] Jiatao Gu, Yong Wang, Kyunghyun Cho, and Victor O.K. Li. Search engine guided neural
machine translation. In AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2018. URL https:
//www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/AAAI/AAAI18/paper/view/17282.
[18] Jiatao Gu, Yong Wang, Kyunghyun Cho, and Victor O.K. Li. Search engine guided neural
machine translation. In 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2018, 32nd
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2018, pages 5133–5140. AAAI press, 2018.
32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2018 ; Conference date: 02-02-2018
Through 07-02-2018.
[19] Kelvin Guu, Tatsunori B. Hashimoto, Yonatan Oren, and Percy Liang. Generating sentences by
editing prototypes. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 6:437–450,
2018. doi: 10.1162/tacl_a_00030. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/Q18-1031.
11
[20] Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. REALM:
Retrieval-augmented language model pre-training. ArXiv, abs/2002.08909, 2020. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2002.08909.
[21] Tatsunori B Hashimoto, Kelvin Guu, Yonatan Oren, and Percy S Liang. A
retrieve-and-edit framework for predicting structured outputs. In S. Bengio,
H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, K. Grauman, N. Cesa-Bianchi, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31, pages 10052–
10062. Curran Associates, Inc., 2018. URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/
8209-a-retrieve-and-edit-framework-for-predicting-structured-outputs.
pdf.
[22] Nabil Hossain, Marjan Ghazvininejad, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Simple and effective retrieveedit-rerank text generation. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 2532–2538, Online, July 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.228. URL https://www.aclweb.org/
anthology/2020.acl-main.228.
[23] Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. Billion-scale similarity search with gpus. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1702.08734, 2017. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08734.
[24] Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke Zettlemoyer. TriviaQA: A Large Scale
Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehension. In Proceedings of the
55th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 1601–1611, Vancouver, Canada, July 2017. Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/P17-1147. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P17-1147.
[25] Armand Joulin and Tomas Mikolov. Inferring algorithmic patterns with stackaugmented recurrent nets. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems - Volume 1, NIPS’15, page 190–198, Cambridge, MA, USA, 2015. MIT Press. URL https://papers.nips.cc/paper/
5857-inferring-algorithmic-patterns-with-stack-augmented-recurrent-nets.
[26] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. Dense passage retrieval for open-domain question answering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2004.04906, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.04906.
[27] Urvashi Khandelwal, Omer Levy, Dan Jurafsky, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike Lewis. Generalization through memorization: Nearest neighbor language models. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2020. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=HklBjCEKvH.
[28] Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. In Yoshua
Bengio and Yann LeCun, editors, 3rd International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR 2015, San Diego, CA, USA, May 7-9, 2015, Conference Track Proceedings, 2015. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980.
[29] Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh,
Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Matthew Kelcey, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina N. Toutanova, Llion Jones, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew Dai, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. Natural Questions: a Benchmark for Question Answering Research. Transactions of the Association of Computational Linguistics, 2019. URL https://tomkwiat.users.x20web.corp.google.com/papers/
natural-questions/main-1455-kwiatkowski.pdf.
[30] Guillaume Lample, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Marc’ Aurelio Ranzato, Ludovic Denoyer, and
Herve Jegou. Large memory layers with product keys. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle,
A. Beygelzimer, F. d’ Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32, pages 8548–8559. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL http:
//papers.nips.cc/paper/9061-large-memory-layers-with-product-keys.pdf.
[31] Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, and Kristina Toutanova. Latent retrieval for weakly supervised
open domain question answering. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association
12
for Computational Linguistics, pages 6086–6096, Florence, Italy, July 2019. Association for
Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/P19-1612. URL https://www.aclweb.org/
anthology/P19-1612.
[32] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed,
Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. BART: Denoising sequence-to-sequence
pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.13461, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.13461.
[33] Jiwei Li, Michel Galley, Chris Brockett, Jianfeng Gao, and Bill Dolan. A diversity-promoting
objective function for neural conversation models. In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, pages 110–119, San Diego, California, June 2016. Association for Computational
Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N16-1014. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
N16-1014.
[34] Margaret Li, Jason Weston, and Stephen Roller. Acute-eval: Improved dialogue evaluation
with optimized questions and multi-turn comparisons. ArXiv, abs/1909.03087, 2019. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.03087.
[35] Hairong Liu, Mingbo Ma, Liang Huang, Hao Xiong, and Zhongjun He. Robust neural machine
translation with joint textual and phonetic embedding. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 3044–3049, Florence, Italy,
July 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/P19-1291. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P19-1291.
[36] Peter J. Liu*, Mohammad Saleh*, Etienne Pot, Ben Goodrich, Ryan Sepassi, Lukasz Kaiser,
and Noam Shazeer. Generating wikipedia by summarizing long sequences. In International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2018. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
id=Hyg0vbWC-.
[37] Yury A. Malkov and D. A. Yashunin. Efficient and robust approximate nearest neighbor search
using hierarchical navigable small world graphs. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, 42:824–836, 2016. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.09320.
[38] Gary Marcus. The next decade in ai: four steps towards robust artificial intelligence. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2002.06177, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.06177.
[39] Luca Massarelli, Fabio Petroni, Aleksandra Piktus, Myle Ott, Tim Rocktäschel, Vassilis
Plachouras, Fabrizio Silvestri, and Sebastian Riedel. How decoding strategies affect the
verifiability of generated text. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.03587, 2019. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/1911.03587.
[40] Paulius Micikevicius, Sharan Narang, Jonah Alben, Gregory Diamos, Erich Elsen, David Garcia,
Boris Ginsburg, Michael Houston, Oleksii Kuchaiev, Ganesh Venkatesh, and Hao Wu. Mixed
precision training. In ICLR, 2018. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=r1gs9JgRZ.
[41] Nikita Moghe, Siddhartha Arora, Suman Banerjee, and Mitesh M. Khapra. Towards exploiting background knowledge for building conversation systems. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2322–2332, Brussels, Belgium, October-November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
10.18653/v1/D18-1255. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D18-1255.
[42] Preksha Nema and Mitesh M. Khapra. Towards a better metric for evaluating question generation
systems. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 3950–3959, Brussels, Belgium, October-November 2018. Association for
Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D18-1429. URL https://www.aclweb.org/
anthology/D18-1429.
[43] Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder,
and Li Deng. MS MARCO: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset. In
Tarek Richard Besold, Antoine Bordes, Artur S. d’Avila Garcez, and Greg Wayne, editors,
Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Computation: Integrating neural and symbolic
13
approaches 2016 co-located with the 30th Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems (NIPS 2016), Barcelona, Spain, December 9, 2016, volume 1773 of CEUR Workshop
Proceedings. CEUR-WS.org, 2016. URL http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1773/CoCoNIPS_
2016_paper9.pdf.
[44] Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. Passage re-ranking with BERT. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1901.04085, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04085.
[45] Myle Ott, Sergey Edunov, Alexei Baevski, Angela Fan, Sam Gross, Nathan Ng, David Grangier,
and Michael Auli. fairseq: A fast, extensible toolkit for sequence modeling. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Demonstrations), pages 48–53, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June 2019. Association
for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N19-4009. URL https://www.aclweb.
org/anthology/N19-4009.
[46] Ethan Perez, Siddharth Karamcheti, Rob Fergus, Jason Weston, Douwe Kiela, and Kyunghyun
Cho. Finding generalizable evidence by learning to convince q&a models. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
2402–2411, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/D19-1244. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1244.
[47] Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, Patrick Lewis, Anton Bakhtin, Yuxiang Wu,
and Alexander Miller. Language models as knowledge bases? In Proceedings of the 2019
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2463–2473, Hong
Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/
D19-1250. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1250.
[48] Fabio Petroni, Patrick Lewis, Aleksandra Piktus, Tim Rocktäschel, Yuxiang Wu, Alexander H.
Miller, and Sebastian Riedel. How context affects language models’ factual predictions. In
Automated Knowledge Base Construction, 2020. URL https://openreview.net/forum?
id=025X0zPfn.
[49] Alec Radford, Karthik Narasimhan, Tim Salimans, and Ilya Sutskever. Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training, 2018. URL
https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/openai-assets/research-covers/
language-unsupervised/language_understanding_paper.pdf.
[50] Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya
Sutskever. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners, 2019. URL
https://d4mucfpksywv.cloudfront.net/better-language-models/language_
models_are_unsupervised_multitask_learners.pdf.
[51] Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena,
Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified
text-to-text transformer. arXiv e-prints, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.10683.
[52] Adam Roberts, Colin Raffel, and Noam Shazeer. How much knowledge can you pack into
the parameters of a language model? arXiv e-prints, 2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2002.08910.
[53] Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and
beyond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr., 3(4):333–389, April 2009. ISSN 1554-0669. doi: 10.1561/
1500000019. URL https://doi.org/10.1561/1500000019.
[54] Irene Solaiman, Miles Brundage, Jack Clark, Amanda Askell, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Jeff Wu, Alec
Radford, and Jian-Bing Wang. Release strategies and the social impacts of language models.
ArXiv, abs/1908.09203, 2019.
[55] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Arthur Szlam, Jason Weston, and Rob Fergus. End-to-end memory networks. In C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, D. D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 28, pages 2440–2448. Curran Associates, Inc., 2015.
URL http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5846-end-to-end-memory-networks.pdf.
14
[56] James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. FEVER: a
large-scale dataset for fact extraction and VERification. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers), pages 809–819, New Orleans, Louisiana,
June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-1074. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N18-1074.
[57] James H. Thorne and Andreas Vlachos. Avoiding catastrophic forgetting in mitigating model
biases in sentence-pair classification with elastic weight consolidation. ArXiv, abs/2004.14366,
2020. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.14366.
[58] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
Ł ukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg,
S. Bengio, H. Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 30, pages 5998–6008. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017. URL
http://papers.nips.cc/paper/7181-attention-is-all-you-need.pdf.
[59] Ashwin Vijayakumar, Michael Cogswell, Ramprasaath Selvaraju, Qing Sun, Stefan Lee, David
Crandall, and Dhruv Batra. Diverse beam search for improved description of complex scenes.
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2018. URL https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.
php/AAAI/AAAI18/paper/view/17329.
[60] Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman.
GLUE: A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding.
In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing and Interpreting
Neural Networks for NLP, pages 353–355, Brussels, Belgium, November 2018. Association for
Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/W18-5446. URL https://www.aclweb.org/
anthology/W18-5446.
[61] Alex Wang, Yada Pruksachatkun, Nikita Nangia, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix
Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman. SuperGLUE: A Stickier Benchmark for GeneralPurpose Language Understanding Systems. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer,
F. d\textquotesingle Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 32, pages 3261–3275. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL https://
arxiv.org/abs/1905.00537.
[62] Shuohang Wang, Mo Yu, Xiaoxiao Guo, Zhiguo Wang, Tim Klinger, Wei Zhang, Shiyu Chang,
Gerry Tesauro, Bowen Zhou, and Jing Jiang. R3: Reinforced ranker-reader for open-domain
question answering. In Sheila A. McIlraith and Kilian Q. Weinberger, editors, Proceedings of
the Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, (AAAI-18), the 30th innovative
Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IAAI-18), and the 8th AAAI Symposium on Educational
Advances in Artificial Intelligence (EAAI-18), New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, February 2-7,
2018, pages 5981–5988. AAAI Press, 2018. URL https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.
php/AAAI/AAAI18/paper/view/16712.
[63] Shuohang Wang, Mo Yu, Jing Jiang, Wei Zhang, Xiaoxiao Guo, Shiyu Chang, Zhiguo Wang,
Tim Klinger, Gerald Tesauro, and Murray Campbell. Evidence aggregation for answer reranking in open-domain question answering. In ICLR, 2018. URL https://openreview.
net/forum?id=rJl3yM-Ab.
[64] Jason Weston, Sumit Chopra, and Antoine Bordes. Memory networks. In Yoshua Bengio
and Yann LeCun, editors, 3rd International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR
2015, San Diego, CA, USA, May 7-9, 2015, Conference Track Proceedings, 2015. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3916.
[65] Jason Weston, Emily Dinan, and Alexander Miller. Retrieve and refine: Improved sequence
generation models for dialogue. In Proceedings of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop SCAI: The 2nd
International Workshop on Search-Oriented Conversational AI, pages 87–92, Brussels, Belgium,
October 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/W18-5713. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-5713.
15
[66] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue, Anthony
Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe Davison, Sam Shleifer,
Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu, Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain
Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest, and Alexander M. Rush. Huggingface’s transformers:
State-of-the-art natural language processing. ArXiv, abs/1910.03771, 2019.
[67] Shiyue Zhang and Mohit Bansal. Addressing semantic drift in question generation for semisupervised question answering. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2495–2509, Hong Kong, China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D19-1253. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1253.
[68] Wanjun Zhong, Jingjing Xu, Duyu Tang, Zenan Xu, Nan Duan, Ming Zhou, Jiahai Wang, and
Jian Yin. Reasoning over semantic-level graph for fact checking. ArXiv, abs/1909.03745, 2019.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.03745.
16
Appendices for Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks
A Implementation Details
For Open-domain QA we report test numbers using 15 retrieved documents for RAG-Token models.
For RAG-Sequence models, we report test results using 50 retrieved documents, and we use the
Thorough Decoding approach since answers are generally short. We use greedy decoding for QA as
we did not find beam search improved results. For Open-MSMarco and Jeopardy question generation,
we report test numbers using ten retrieved documents for both RAG-Token and RAG-Sequence,
and we also train a BART-large model as a baseline. We use a beam size of four, and use the Fast
Decoding approach for RAG-Sequence models, as Thorough Decoding did not improve performance.
B Human Evaluation
Figure 4: Annotation interface for human evaluation of factuality. A pop-out for detailed instructions
and a worked example appear when clicking "view tool guide".
Figure 4 shows the user interface for human evaluation. To avoid any biases for screen position,
which model corresponded to sentence A and sentence B was randomly selected for each example.
Annotators were encouraged to research the topic using the internet, and were given detailed instructions and worked examples in a full instructions tab. We included some gold sentences in order to
assess the accuracy of the annotators. Two annotators did not perform well on these examples and
their annotations were removed from the results.
C Training setup Details
We train all RAG models and BART baselines using Fairseq [45].2 We train with mixed precision
floating point arithmetic [40], distributing training across 8, 32GB NVIDIA V100 GPUs, though
training and inference can be run on one GPU. We find that doing Maximum Inner Product Search
with FAISS is sufficiently fast on CPU, so we store document index vectors on CPU, requiring ∼ 100
GB of CPU memory for all of Wikipedia. After submission, We have ported our code to HuggingFace
Transformers [66]
3
, which achieves equivalent performance to the previous version but is a cleaner
and easier to use implementation. This version is also open-sourced. We also compress the document
index using FAISS’s compression tools, reducing the CPU memory requirement to 36GB. Scripts to
run experiments with RAG can be found at https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/
blob/master/examples/rag/README.md and an interactive demo of a RAG model can be found
at https://huggingface.co/rag/
2
https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq
3
https://github.com/huggingface/transformers
17
D Further Details on Open-Domain QA
For open-domain QA, multiple answer annotations are often available for a given question. These
answer annotations are exploited by extractive models during training as typically all the answer
annotations are used to find matches within documents when preparing training data. For RAG, we
also make use of multiple annotation examples for Natural Questions and WebQuestions by training
the model with each (q, a) pair separately, leading to a small increase in accuracy. For TriviaQA,
there are often many valid answers to a given question, some of which are not suitable training targets,
such as emoji or spelling variants. For TriviaQA, we filter out answer candidates if they do not occur
in top 1000 documents for the query.
CuratedTrec preprocessing The answers for CuratedTrec are given in the form of regular expressions, which has been suggested as a reason why it is unsuitable for answer-generation models [20].
To overcome this, we use a pre-processing step where we first retrieve the top 1000 documents for
each query, and use the answer that most frequently matches the regex pattern as the supervision
target. If no matches are found, we resort to a simple heuristic: generate all possible permutations for
each regex, replacing non-deterministic symbols in the regex nested tree structure with a whitespace.
TriviaQA Evaluation setups The open-domain QA community customarily uses public development datasets as test datasets, as test data for QA datasets is often restricted and dedicated to reading
compehension purposes. We report our results using the datasets splits used in DPR [26], which are
consistent with common practice in Open-domain QA. For TriviaQA, this test dataset is the public
TriviaQA Web Development split. Roberts et al. [52] used the TriviaQA official Wikipedia test set
instead. Févry et al. [14] follow this convention in order to compare with Roberts et al. [52] (See
appendix of [14]). We report results on both test sets to enable fair comparison to both approaches.
We find that our performance is much higher using the official Wiki test set, rather than the more
conventional open-domain test set, which we attribute to the official Wiki test set questions being
simpler to answer from Wikipedia.
E Further Details on FEVER
For FEVER classification, we follow the practice from [32], and first re-generate the claim, and
then classify using the representation of the final hidden state, before finally marginalizing across
documents to obtain the class probabilities. The FEVER task traditionally has two sub-tasks. The
first is to classify the claim as either "Supported", "Refuted" or "Not Enough Info", which is the task
we explore in the main paper. FEVER’s other sub-task involves extracting sentences from Wikipedia
as evidence supporting the classification prediction. As FEVER uses a different Wikipedia dump to
us, directly tackling this task is not straightforward. We hope to address this in future work.
F Null Document Probabilities
We experimented with adding "Null document" mechanism to RAG, similar to REALM [20] in order
to model cases where no useful information could be retrieved for a given input. Here, if k documents
were retrieved, we would additionally "retrieve" an empty document and predict a logit for the null
document, before marginalizing over k + 1 predictions. We explored modelling this null document
logit by learning (i) a document embedding for the null document, (ii) a static learnt bias term, or
(iii) a neural network to predict the logit. We did not find that these improved performance, so in
the interests of simplicity, we omit them. For Open MS-MARCO, where useful retrieved documents
cannot always be retrieved, we observe that the model learns to always retrieve a particular set of
documents for questions that are less likely to benefit from retrieval, suggesting that null document
mechanisms may not be necessary for RAG.
G Parameters
Our RAG models contain the trainable parameters for the BERT-base query and document encoder of
DPR, with 110M parameters each (although we do not train the document encoder ourselves) and
406M trainable parameters from BART-large, 406M parameters, making a total of 626M trainable
18
Table 7: Number of instances in the datasets used. *A hidden subset of this data is used for evaluation
Task Train Development Test
Natural Questions 79169 8758 3611
TriviaQA 78786 8838 11314
WebQuestions 3418 362 2033
CuratedTrec 635 134 635
Jeopardy Question Generation 97392 13714 26849
MS-MARCO 153726 12468 101093*
FEVER-3-way 145450 10000 10000
FEVER-2-way 96966 6666 6666
parameters. The best performing "closed-book" (parametric only) open-domain QA model is T5-11B
with 11 Billion trainable parameters. The T5 model with the closest number of parameters to our
models is T5-large (770M parameters), which achieves a score of 28.9 EM on Natural Questions [52],
substantially below the 44.5 that RAG-Sequence achieves, indicating that hybrid parametric/nonparametric models require far fewer trainable parameters for strong open-domain QA performance.
The non-parametric memory index does not consist of trainable parameters, but does consists of 21M
728 dimensional vectors, consisting of 15.3B values. These can be easily be stored at 8-bit floating
point precision to manage memory and disk footprints.
H Retrieval Collapse
In preliminary experiments, we observed that for some tasks such as story generation [11], the
retrieval component would “collapse” and learn to retrieve the same documents regardless of the
input. In these cases, once retrieval had collapsed, the generator would learn to ignore the documents,
and the RAG model would perform equivalently to BART. The collapse could be due to a less-explicit
requirement for factual knowledge in some tasks, or the longer target sequences, which could result
in less informative gradients for the retriever. Perez et al. [46] also found spurious retrieval results
when optimizing a retrieval component in order to improve performance on downstream tasks.
I Number of instances per dataset
The number of training, development and test datapoints in each of our datasets is shown in Table 7.
19
M3-Embedding: Multi-Linguality, Multi-Functionality, Multi-Granularity
Text Embeddings Through Self-Knowledge Distillation
Jianlv Chen♣ Shitao Xiao♠† Peitian Zhang♠ Kun Luo♠ Defu Lian♣∗ Zheng Liu♠∗
♣ University of Science and Technology of China ♠ BAAI
stxiao@baai.ac.cn {namespace.pt,luokun695,zhengliu1026}@gmail.com
chenjianlv@mail.ustc.edu.cn liandefu@ustc.edu.cn
Abstract
In this paper, we introduce a new embedding
model called M3-Embedding, which is distinguished for its versatility in Multi-Linguality,
Multi-Functionality, and Multi-Granularity. It
provides a uniform support for the semantic retrieval of more than 100 working languages. It
can simultaneously accomplish the three common retrieval functionalities: dense retrieval,
multi-vector retrieval, and sparse retrieval. Besides, it is also capable of processing inputs
of different granularities, spanning from short
sentences to long documents of up to 8,192 tokens. The effective training of M3-Embedding
presents a series of technical contributions. Notably, we propose a novel self-knowledge distillation approach, where the relevance scores
from different retrieval functionalities can be
integrated as the teacher signal to enhance
the training quality. We also optimize the
batching strategy, which enables a large batch
size and high training throughput to improve
the discriminativeness of embeddings. M3-
Embedding exhibits a superior performance in
our experiment, leading to new state-of-the-art
results on multilingual, cross-lingual, and longdocument retrieval benchmarks.1
1 Introduction
Embedding models are a critical form of DNN
application in natural language processing. They
encode the textual data in the latent space, where
the underlying semantics of the data can be expressed by the output embeddings (Reimers and
Gurevych, 2019; Ni et al., 2022). With the advent of pre-trained language models, the quality
of text embeddings have been substantially improved, making them imperative components for
the information retrieval (IR) system. One common form of embedding-based IR application is
†. Co-first author
∗. Corresponding authors
1. The model, code, and data is publicly available at
https://github.com/FlagOpen/FlagEmbedding.
BGE M3-Embedding
Multi-Lingual
Cross-Lingual
100+ Languages
Sparse Retrieval
Multi-Vec Retrieval
Dense Retrieval
Passage-Level
Doc-Level (≤8192)
Sentence-Level
Multi-Linguality Multi-Functionality Multi-Granularity
M3-Embedding
Multi-Lingual
Cross-Lingual
100+ Languages
Sparse Retrieval
Multi-Vec Retrieval
Dense Retrieval
Passage-Level
Doc-Level (≤8192)
Sentence-Level
Multi-Linguality Multi-Functionality Multi-Granularity
Figure 1: Characters of M3-Embedding.
dense retrieval, where relevant answers to the query
can be retrieved based on the embedding similarity
(Karpukhin et al., 2020; Xiong et al., 2020; Neelakantan et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2022; Xiao et al.,
2023). Besides, the embedding model can also be
applied to other IR tasks, such as multi-vector retrieval where the fine-grained relevance between
query and document is computed based on the interaction score of multiple embeddings (Khattab
and Zaharia, 2020), and sparse or lexical retrieval
where the importance of each term is estimated by
its output embedding (Gao et al., 2021a; Lin and
Ma, 2021; Dai and Callan, 2020).
Despite the widespread popularity of text embeddings, the existing methods are still limited in
versatility. First of all, most of the embedding models are tailored only for English, leaving few viable
options for the other languages. Secondly, the existing embedding models are usually trained for one
single retrieval functionality. However, typical IR
systems call for the compound workflow of multiple retrieval methods. Thirdly, it is challenging to
train a competitive long-document retriever due to
the overwhelming training cost, where most of the
embedding models can only support short inputs.
To address the above challenges, we introduce
M3-Embedding, which is pronounced for its
breakthrough of versatility in working languages,
retrieval functionalities, and input granularities.
Particularly, M3-Embedding is proficient in multiarXiv:2402.03216v5 [cs.CL] 12 Dec 2025
linguality, which is able to support more than 100
world languages. By learning a common semantic
space for different languages, enables both multilingual retrieval within each language and crosslingual retrieval between different languages. Besides, it is able to generate versatile embeddings to
support different retrieval functionalities, not just
dense retrieval, but also sparse retrieval and multivector retrieval. Finally, M3-Embedding is learned
to process different input granularities, spanning
from short inputs like sentences and passages, to
long documents of up to 8,192 input tokens.
The training of M3-Embedding poses a significant challenge. In our work, the following technical
contributions are made to optimize the embedding
quality. Firstly, we propose a novel self knowledge distillation framework, where the multiple
retrieval functionalities can be jointly learned and
mutually reinforced. In M3-Embedding, the [CLS]
embedding is used for dense retrieval, while embeddings from other tokens are used for sparse retrieval
and multi-vector retrieval. Based on the principle
of ensemble learning (Buhlmann ¨ , 2012), such heterogenous predictors can be combined as a stronger
predictor. Thus, we integrate the relevance scores
from different retrieval functions as the teacher
signal, which is used to enhance the learning process via knowledge distillation. Secondly, we optimize the batching strategy to achieve a large
batch size and high training throughput, which substantially contributes to the discriminativeness of
embeddings. Last but not least, we perform extensive and high-quality data curation. Our dataset
includes three sources: 1) the extraction of unsupervised data from massive multi-lingual corpora, 2)
the integration of closely related supervised data, 3)
the synthesization of scarce training data. The three
data sources are complement to each other and applied to different training stages, which lays a solid
foundation for the versatile text embeddings.
M3-Embedding exhibits a remarkable versatility in our experiments. It achieves superior retrieval quality for a variety of languages, leading
to state-of-the-art performances on popular multilingual and cross-lingual benchmarks like MIRACL (Zhang et al., 2023c) and MKQA (Longpre
et al., 2021). It effectively learns the three retrieval
functionalities, which can not only work individually but also work together for an even stronger
retrieval quality. It also well maintains its superior capability across different input granularities
within 8192 tokens, which outperforms the existing
methods by a notable advantage.
Our contributions are summarized as follows.
1) We present M3-Embedding, which achieves unprecedented versatility in multi-linguality, multifunctionality, and multi-granularity. 2) We propose
a novel training framework of self-knowledge distillation and optimize the batching strategy for efficient training. We also create high-quality training
resource based on comprehensive data curation. 3)
Our model, code, and data is publicly available,
offering critical resources for both direct usage and
future development of text embeddings.
2 Related Work
The related works are reviewed from three aspects:
general text embeddings, embedding models for
neural retrieval, embeddings of multi-linguality.
In the past few years, substantial progress has
been achieved in the field of text embedding. One
major driving force is the popularity of pre-trained
language models, where the underlying semantic
of the data can be effectively encoded by such powerful text encoders (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019;
Karpukhin et al., 2020; Ni et al., 2022). In addition, the progress of contrastive learning is another critical factor, especially the improvement of
negative sampling (Xiong et al., 2020; Qu et al.,
2021) and the exploitation of knowledge distillation (Hofstatter et al. ¨ , 2021; Ren et al., 2021; Zhang
et al., 2021a). On top of these well-established techniques, it becomes increasingly popular to learn
versatile embedding models, which are able to uniformly support a variety of application scenarios.
So far, there have been many impactful methods in
the direction, like Contriever (Izacard et al., 2022),
LLM-Embedder (Zhang et al., 2023a), E5 (Wang
et al., 2022), BGE (Xiao et al., 2023), SGPT (Muennighoff, 2022), and Open Text Embedding (Neelakantan et al., 2022), which significantly advance
the usage of text embeddings for general tasks.
One major application of embedding models is
neural retrieval (Lin et al., 2022). By measuring
the semantic relationship with the text embeddings,
the relevant answers to the input query can be retrieved based on the embedding similarity. The
most common form of embedding-based retrieval
method is dense retrieval (Karpukhin et al., 2020),
where the text encoder’s outputs are aggregated
(e.g., via [CLS] or mean-pooling) to compute the
embedding similarity. Another common alternative
is known as multi-vecor retrieval (Khattab and Za-
haria, 2020; Humeau et al., 2020), which applies
fine-grained interactions for the text encoder’s outputs to compute the embedding similarity. Finally,
the text embeddings can also be transformed into
term weights, which facilitates sparse or lexical retrieval (Luan et al., 2021; Dai and Callan, 2020; Lin
and Ma, 2021). Typically, the above retrieval methods are realized by different embedding models.
To the best of our knowledge, no existing method
is able to unify all these functionalities.
Despite the substantial technical advancement,
most of the existing text embeddings are developed only for English, where other languages are
lagging behind. To mitigate this problem, continual efforts are presented from multiple directions.
One is the development of pre-trained multi-lingual
text encoders, such as mBERT (Pires et al., 2019),
mT5 (Xue et al., 2021), XLM-R (Conneau et al.,
2020a). Another one is the curation of training and
evaluation data for multi-lingual text embeddings,
e.g., MIRACL (Zhang et al., 2023c), mMARCO
(Bonifacio et al., 2021), Mr. TyDi (Zhang et al.,
2021b), MKQA (Longpre et al., 2021). At the same
time, the multi-lingual text embeddings are continually developed from the community, e.g., mDPR
(Zhang et al., 2023b), mContriever (Izacard et al.,
2022), mE5 (Wang et al., 2022), etc. However,
the current progress is still far from enough given
the notable gap with English models and the huge
imbalance between different languages.
3 M3-Embedding
M3-Embedding realizes three-fold versatility. It
supports a wide variety of languages and handles
input data of different granularities. Besides, it
unifies the common retrieval functionalities of text
embeddings. Formally, given a query q in an arbitrary language x, it is able to retrieve document d in
language y from the corpus Dy
: d
y ← fn∗
(q
x
, Dy
).
In this place, fn∗
(·) belongs to any of the functions:
dense, lexical, or multi-vector retrieval; y can be
another language or the same language as x.
3.1 Data Curation
M3-Embedding calls for a large-scale and diverse
multi-lingual dataset. In this work, we perform
comprehensive data collection from three sources:
the unsupervised data from unlabeled corpora, the
fine-tuning data from labeled corpora, and the finetuning data via synthesization (shown as Table 8).
The three data sources complement to each other,
which are applied to different stages of the training process. Particularly, the unsupervised data is
curated by extracting the rich-semantic structures,
e.g., title-body, title-abstract, instruction-output,
etc., within a wide variety of multi-lingual corpora,
including Wikipedia, S2ORC (Lo et al., 2020),
xP3 (Muennighoff et al., 2023), mC4 (Raffel et al.,
2019), CC-News (Hamborg et al., 2017) and the
well-curated data from MTP (Xiao et al., 2023). To
learn the unified embedding space for cross-lingual
semantic matching, the parallel sentences are introduced from two translation datasets, NLLB (NLLB
Team et al., 2022) and CCMatrix (Schwenk et al.,
2021). The raw data is filtered to remove potential
bad contents and low-relevance samples. In total,
it brings in 1.2 billion text pairs of 194 languages
and 2655 cross-lingual correspondences.
Besides, we collect relatively small but diverse
and high-quality fine-tuning data from labeled
corpora. For English, we incorporate 8 datasets,
including HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018), TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017), NQ (Kwiatkowski et al.,
2019), MS MARCO (Nguyen et al., 2016), COLIEE (Kim et al., 2022), PubMedQA (Jin et al.,
2019), SQuAD (Rajpurkar et al., 2016), and NLI
data from SimCSE (Gao et al., 2021b). For Chinese, we integrate 7 datasets, including DuReader
(He et al., 2018), mMARCO-ZH (Bonifacio et al.,
2021), T2
-Ranking (Xie et al., 2023), LawGPT(?),
CMedQAv2 (Zhang et al., 2018), NLI-zh2
, and
LeCaRDv2 (Li et al., 2023). For other languages,
we leverage the training data from Mr. Tydi (Zhang
et al., 2021b) and MIRACL (Zhang et al., 2023c).
Finally, we generate synthetic data to mitigate
the shortage of long document retrieval tasks and
introduce extra multi-lingual fine-tuning data (denoted as MultiLongDoc). Specifically, we sample lengthy articles from Wikipedia, Wudao (Yuan
et al., 2021) and mC4 datasets and randomly
choose paragraphs from them. Then we use GPT3.5 to generate questions based on these paragraphs.
The generated question and the sampled article constitute a new text pair to the fine-tuning data. Detailed specifications are presented in Appendix A.2.
3.2 Hybrid Retrieval
M3-Embedding unifies the common retrieval functionalities of the embedding model, i.e. dense retrieval, lexical (sparse) retrieval, and multi-vector
retrieval. The formulation is presented as follows.
2. https://huggingface.co/datasets/shibing624/nli-zh-all
Pre-Training 1.2 Billion multilingual
unsupervised data Fine-Tuning • Labled data (EN, ZH, Mul)
• Synthetic data (Long)
M3 M3
Query Answer
×
M3 M3
Query Answer
× × ×
dense score inter score
dense multi-vec lex
Figure 2: Multi-stage training process of M3-Embedding with self-knowledge distillation.
• Dense retrieval. The input query q is transformed into the hidden states Hq based on a text
encoder. We use the normalized hidden state of the
special token “[CLS]” for the representation of the
query: eq = norm(Hq[0]). Similarly, we can get
the embedding of passage p as ep = norm(Hp[0]).
Thus, the relevance score between query and passage is measured by the inner product between the
two embeddings eq and ep: sdense ← ⟨ep, eq⟩.
• Lexical Retrieval. The output embeddings
are also used to estimate the importance of each
term to facilitate lexical retrieval. For each term
t within the query (a term is corresponding to a
token in our work), the term weight is computed as
wqt ← Relu(WT
lexHq[i])), where Wlex ∈ Rd×1
is the matrix mapping the hidden state to a float
number. If a term t appears multiple times in the
query, we only retain its max weight. We use the
same way to compute the weight of each term in
the passage. Based on the estimation term weights,
the relevance score between query and passage is
computed by the joint importance of the co-existed
terms (denoted as q ∩ p) within the query and passage: slex ←
P
t∈q∩p
(wqt ∗ wpt
).
• Multi-Vector Retrieval. As an extension of
dense retrieval, the multi-vector method utilizes
the entire output embeddings for the representation
of query and passage: Eq = norm(WT
mulHq),
Ep = norm(WT
mulHp), where Wmul ∈ R
d×d
is
the learnable projection matrix. Following ColBert (Khattab and Zaharia, 2020), we use lateinteraction to compute the fine-grained relevance
score: smul ← 1
N
PN
i=1 maxM
j=1 Eq[i] · ET
p
[j]; N
and M are the lengths of query and passage.
Thanks to the multi-functionality of the embedding model, the retrieval process can be conducted
in a hybrid process. First of all, the candidate results can be individually retrieved by each of the
methods (the multi-vector method can be exempted
from this step due to its heavy cost). Then, the final
retrieval result is re-ranked based on the integrated
relevance score:
srank ← w1 · sdense + w2 · slex + w3 · smul (1)
where the values of w1, w2 and w3 depend on the
downstream scenario.
3.3 Self-Knowledge Distillation
The embedding model is trained to discriminate
the positive samples from the negative ones. For
each of the retrieval methods, it is expected to assign a higher score for the query’s positive samples
compared with the negative ones. Therefore, the
training process is conducted to minimize the InfoNCE loss, whose general form is presented by
the following loss function:
Ls(·) = − log exp(s(q, p∗
)/τ )
P
p∈{p
∗,P′}
exp(s(q, p)/τ )
. (2)
Here, p
∗
and P
′
stand for the positive and negative
samples to the query q; s(·) is any of the functions
within {sdense(·), slex(·), smul(·)}.
The training objectives of different retrieval
methods can be mutually conflicting with each
their. Therefore, the native multi-objective training can be unfavorable to the embedding’s quality.
To facilitate the optimization of multiple retrieval
functions, we propose to unify the training process on top of self-knowledge distillation. Particularly, based on the principle of ensemble learning
(Buhlmann ¨ , 2012), the predictions from different
retrieval methods can be integrated as a more accurate relevance score given their heterogeneous
nature. In the simplest form, the integration can
just be the weighted sum of different prediction
scores:
sinter ← w1 · sdense + w2 · slex + w3 · smul. (3)
Then we compute the weighted sum of Ldense,
Llex, Lmul and Linter as the loss without selfknowledge distillation:
L ←
λ1·Ldense+λ2·Llex+λ3·Lmul+Linter
/4.
(4)
In previous studies, the training quality of embedding model can benefit from knowledge distillation, which takes advantage of fine-grained soft labels from another ranking model (Hofstatter et al. ¨ ,
2021). In this place, we simply employ the integration score sinter as the teacher, where the loss
function of each retrieval method is modified as:
L
′
∗ ← −p(sinter) ∗ log p(s∗). (5)
Here, p(·) is the softmax activation; s∗ is any of the
members within sdense, slex, and smul. We further
integrate and normalize the modified loss function:
L
′ ←

λ1 ·L′
dense +λ2 ·L′
lex +λ3 ·L′
mul
/3. (6)
Finally, we derive the final loss function for selfknowledge distillation with the linear combination
of L and L
′
: Lf inal ←

L + L
′

/2.
The training process constitutes a multi-stage
workflow (Figure 2). In the first place, the text encoder (an XLM-RoBERTa (Conneau et al., 2020a)
model adapted by RetroMAE (Xiao et al., 2022)
method) is pre-trained with the massive unsupervised data, where only the dense retrieval is trained
in the basic form of contrastive learning. The
self-knowledge distillation is applied to the second
stage, where the embedding model is fine-tuned
to establish the three retrieval functionalities. The
random initialization of Wlex led to poor slex accuracy and high Llex at the beginning of the training. In order to reduce the impact of this, we set
w1 = 1, w2 = 0.3, w3 = 1, λ1 = 1, λ2 = 0.1 and
λ3 = 1 during the training process. Both labeled
and synthetic data are used in this stage, where hard
negative samples are introduced for each query following the ANCE method (Xiong et al., 2020).
(See Appendix B.1 for more details.)
3.4 Efficient Batching
The embedding model needs to learn from diverse
and massive multi-lingual data to fully capture the
general semantic of different languages. It also
… … …
128 1024 4096 8192
Training data
Sampling
Batch A
Batch B
Batch C
broadcast
Split-batchbroadcast
Split-batch
Split
batch
Figure 3: Efficient Batching. (Data is grouped and
sampled by length. Gradient-checkpointing and crossGPU broadcasting are enabled to save memory.)
needs to keep the batch size as large as possible
(introducing a huge amount of in-batch negatives)
to ensure the discriminativeness of text embeddings. Given the limitations on GPU’s memory
and computation power, people usually truncate the
input data into short sequences for high throughput of training and a large batch size. However,
the common practice is not a feasible option for
M3-Embedding because it needs to learn from both
short and long-sequence data to effectively handle
the input of different granularities. In our work,
we improve the training efficiency by optimizing
the batching strategy, which enables high training
throughput and large batch sizes.
Particularly, the training data is pre-processed
by being grouped by sequence length. When producing a mini-batch, the training instances are sampled from the same group. Due to the similar sequence lengths, it significantly reduces sequence
padding (Figure 3, marked in red) and facilitates a
more effective utilization of GPUs. Besides, when
sampling the training data for different GPUs, the
random seed is always fixed, which ensures the
load balance and minimizes the waiting time in
each training step. Besides, when handling longsequence training data, the mini-batch is further
divided into sub-batches, which takes less memory
footprint. We iteratively encode each sub-batch
using gradient checkpointing (Chen et al., 2016)
and gather all generated embeddings. This method
can significantly increase the batch size. For example, when processing text with a length of 8192,
the batch size can be increased by more than 20
times. (see Appendx B.3 for more details.) Finally,
the embeddings from different GPUs are broadcasted, allowing each device to obtain all embeddings in the distributed environment, which notably
expands the scale of in-bath negative samples.
For users who are severely limited in computa-
Model Avg ar bn en es fa fi fr hi id ja ko ru sw te th zh de yo
Baselines (Prior Work)
BM25 31.9 39.5 48.2 26.7 7.7 28.7 45.8 11.5 35.0 29.7 31.2 37.1 25.6 35.1 38.3 49.1 17.5 12.0 56.1
mDPR 41.8 49.9 44.3 39.4 47.8 48.0 47.2 43.5 38.3 27.2 43.9 41.9 40.7 29.9 35.6 35.8 51.2 49.0 39.6
mContriever 43.1 52.5 50.1 36.4 41.8 21.5 60.2 31.4 28.6 39.2 42.4 48.3 39.1 56.0 52.8 51.7 41.0 40.8 41.5
mE5large 66.6 76.0 75.9 52.9 52.9 59.0 77.8 54.5 62.0 52.9 70.6 66.5 67.4 74.9 84.6 80.2 56.0 56.4 78.3
E5mistral-7b 63.4 73.3 70.3 57.3 52.2 52.1 74.7 55.2 52.1 52.7 66.8 61.8 67.7 68.4 73.9 74.0 54.0 54.1 79.7
OpenAI-3 54.9 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
M3-Embedding (Our Work)
Dense 69.2 78.4 80.0 56.9 56.1 60.9 78.6 58.3 59.5 56.1 72.8 69.9 70.1 78.7 86.2 82.6 62.7 56.7 81.8
Sparse 53.9 67.1 68.9 43.8 38.6 45.1 65.4 35.3 48.2 48.9 56.1 61.5 44.5 57.9 79.1 70.9 36.1 32.5 70.0
Multi-vec 70.5 79.6 81.0 59.3 57.8 62.0 80.1 59.4 61.5 58.3 74.5 71.2 71.2 79.1 87.9 83.0 63.7 58.0 82.4
Dense+Sparse 70.4 79.6 80.7 58.8 58.1 62.3 79.7 58.0 62.9 58.3 73.9 71.2 69.8 78.5 87.2 83.1 63.5 57.7 83.3
All 71.5 80.2 81.5 59.6 59.7 63.4 80.4 61.2 63.3 59.0 75.2 72.1 71.7 79.6 88.1 83.7 64.9 59.8 83.5
Table 1: Multi-lingual retrieval performance on the MIRACL dev set (measured by nDCG@10).
tion or data resource, we present an even simpler
method called MCLS (Multi-CLS), which simply
inserts multiple CLS tokens to the long document
during inference, and takes the average of all CLS
embeddings as the ultimate embedding of the document. Despite simplicity, it is surprisingly effective
in practice. (See Appendix B.2 for more details.)
4 Experiment
In this section, we investigate M3-Embedding’s performance in terms of multi-lingual retrieval, crosslingual retrieval, and long-doc retrieval. We also
explore the impact of its technical factors.
4.1 Multi-Lingual Retrieval
We evaluate the multi-lingual retrieval performance
with MIRACL (Zhang et al., 2023c), which consists of ad-hoc retrieval tasks in 18 languages.
Each task is made up of query and passage presented in the same language. Following the official benchmark, we evaluate our method using
Pyserini (Lin et al., 2021), and use nDCG@10 as
the primary evaluation metric (Recall@100 is also
measured and reported in Appendix C.1). Specifically, for the dense method (denoted as Dense),
we first use it to generate the embeddings of the
corpus and then build the dense index for searching top-1000 candidates with Faiss. For the sparse
method (denoted as Sparse), we first use it to generate the weights of the corpus and then build the
sparse index for searching top-1000 candidates
with Lucene. For the multi-vector method (denoted as Multi-vec), considering its heavy cost,
we use it as reranker to re-rank the top-200 candidates from dense method. For the hybrid retrieval
of dense method and sparse method (denoted as
Dense+Sparse), we set w1 = 1, w2 = 0.3 and
w3 = 0 in equation(1) to re-rank the union set of
top-1000 candidates from Dense and top-1000 candidate from Sparse. For the hybrid retrieval of all
three methods (denoted as All), we set w1 = 1,
w2 = 0.3 and w3 = 1 in equation(1) to re-rank the
top-200 candidates from Dense.
We incorporate the following baselines in
our experiment: the lexical retrieval method:
BM25 (Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009); the
dense retrieval methods: mDPR3
(Zhang et al.,
2023b), mContriever4
(Izacard et al., 2022),
mE5large (Wang et al., 2022) and E5mistral-7b (Wang
et al., 2023). To make the BM25 and M3 more
comparable, in the experiment, we use the same tokenizer as M3 (i.e., the tokenizer of XLM-Roberta)
for BM25. Using the same vocabulary from
XLM-Roberta can also ensure that both approaches
have the same retrieval latency. The results of
BM25 with different tokenizers are shown in Appendix C.2. We also make a comparison with
Text-Embedding-3-Large(abbreviated as OpenAI3), which was recently released by OpenAI5
.
We can make the following observations according to the experiment result in Table 1. Firstly, M3-
Embedding already achieves a superior retrieval
performance with only its dense retrieval functionality (Dense). It not only outperforms other
baseline methods in the average performance, but
also maintains a consistent empirical advantage
in most of individual languages. Even compared
with E5mistral-7b, which leverages a much larger
Mistral-7B model as the text encoder and specifically trained with English data, our method is able
to produce a similar result in English and notably
higher results in the other languages. Besides, the
sparse retrieval functionality (Sparse) is also effectively trained by M3-Embedding, as it outper3. https://huggingface.co/castorini/mdpr-tied-pft-msmarco
4. https://huggingface.co/facebook/mcontriever-msmarco
5. https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings
Baselines (Prior Work) M3-Embedding (Our Work)
BM25 mDPR mContriever mE5large E5mistral-7b OpenAI-3 Dense Sparse Multi-vec Dense+Sparse All
ar 18.9 48.2 58.2 68.7 59.6 65.6 71.1 23.5 71.4 71.1 71.5
da 49.3 67.4 73.9 77.4 77.8 73.6 77.2 55.4 77.5 77.4 77.6
de 35.4 65.8 71.7 76.9 77.0 73.6 76.2 43.3 76.3 76.4 76.3
es 43.4 66.8 72.6 76.4 77.4 73.9 76.4 50.6 76.6 76.7 76.9
fi 46.3 56.2 70.2 74.0 72.0 72.7 75.1 51.1 75.3 75.3 75.5
fr 45.3 68.2 72.8 75.5 78.0 74.1 76.2 53.9 76.4 76.6 76.6
he 26.9 49.7 63.8 69.6 47.2 58.1 72.4 31.1 72.9 72.5 73.0
hu 38.2 60.4 69.7 74.7 75.0 71.2 74.7 44.6 74.6 74.9 75.0
it 45.2 66.0 72.3 76.8 77.1 73.6 76.0 52.5 76.4 76.3 76.5
ja 24.5 60.3 64.8 71.5 65.1 71.9 75.0 31.3 75.1 75.0 75.2
km 27.8 29.5 26.8 28.1 34.3 33.9 68.6 30.1 69.1 68.8 69.2
ko 27.9 50.9 59.7 68.1 59.4 63.9 71.6 31.4 71.7 71.6 71.8
ms 55.9 65.5 74.1 76.3 77.2 73.3 77.2 62.4 77.4 77.4 77.4
nl 56.2 68.2 73.7 77.8 79.1 74.2 77.4 62.4 77.6 77.7 77.6
no 52.1 66.7 73.5 77.3 76.6 73.3 77.1 57.9 77.2 77.4 77.3
pl 40.8 63.3 71.6 76.7 77.1 72.7 76.3 46.1 76.5 76.3 76.6
pt 44.9 65.5 72.0 73.5 77.5 73.7 76.3 50.9 76.4 76.5 76.4
ru 33.2 62.7 69.8 76.8 75.5 72.0 76.2 36.9 76.4 76.2 76.5
sv 54.6 66.9 73.2 77.6 78.3 74.0 76.9 59.6 77.2 77.4 77.4
th 37.8 53.8 66.9 76.0 67.4 65.2 76.4 42.0 76.5 76.5 76.6
tr 45.8 59.1 71.1 74.3 73.0 71.8 75.6 51.8 75.9 76.0 76.0
vi 46.6 63.4 70.9 75.4 70.9 71.1 76.6 51.8 76.7 76.8 76.9
zh cn 31.0 63.7 68.1 56.6 69.3 70.7 74.6 35.4 74.9 74.7 75.0
zh hk 35.0 62.8 68.0 58.1 65.1 69.6 73.8 39.8 74.1 74.0 74.3
zh tw 33.5 64.0 67.9 58.1 65.8 69.7 73.5 37.7 73.5 73.6 73.6
Avg 39.9 60.6 67.9 70.9 70.1 69.5 75.1 45.3 75.3 75.3 75.5
Table 2: Cross-lingual retrieval performance on MKQA (measured by Recall@100).
forms the typical BM25 methods in all languages.
We can also observe the additional improvement
from multi-vector retrieval, which relies on finegrained interactions between query and passage’s
embeddings to compute the relevance score. Finally, the collaboration of dense and sparse method
(Dense+Sparse) leads to a further improvement
over each individual method, and the collaboration of all three methods (All) brings forth the best
performance.
4.2 Cross-Lingual Retrieval
We make evaluation for the cross-lingual retrieval
performance with the MKQA benchmark (Longpre
et al., 2021), which includes queries in 25 nonEnglish languages. For each query, it needs to
retrieve the passages containing answers from the
English Wikipedia corpus. In our experiment, we
make use of the well-processed corpus offered by
the BEIR6
(?). Following the previous study (Izacard et al., 2022), we report Recall@100 as the primary metric (Recall@20 is reported as an auxiliary
metric in the Appendix C.1). For Dense+Sparse
method and All method, we set the same weights
as in MIRACL dataset.
The experiment result is shown in Table 2. Similar to our observation in multi-lingual retrieval,
6. https://huggingface.co/datasets/BeIR/nq
M3-Embedding continues to produce a superior
performance, where it notably outperforms other
baseline methods purely with its dense retrieval
functionality (Dense). The collaboration of different retrieval methods brings in further improvements, leading to the best empirical performance
of cross-lingual retrieval. Besides, we can also observe the following interesting results which are
unique to this benchmark. Firstly, the performance
gaps are not as significant as MIRACL, where competitive baselines like E5mistral-7b is able to produce
similar or even better results on some of the testing
languages. However, the baselines are prone to bad
performances in many other languages, especially
the low-resource languages, such as ar, km, he, etc.
In contrast, M3-Embedding maintains relatively
stable performances in all languages, which can
largely be attributed to its pre-training over comprehensive unsupervised data. Secondly, although M3-
Embedding (Sparse) is still better than BM25, it
performs badly compared with other methods. This
is because there are only very limited co-existed
terms for cross-lingual retrieval as the query and
passage are presented in different languages.
4.3 Multilingual Long-Doc Retrieval
We evaluate the retrieval performance with longer
sequences with two benchmarks: MLDR (Multilingual Long-Doc Retrieval), which is curated by
Max Length Avg ar de en es fr hi it ja ko pt ru th zh
Baselines (Prior Work)
BM25 8192 53.6 45.1 52.6 57.0 78.0 75.7 43.7 70.9 36.2 25.7 82.6 61.3 33.6 34.6
mDPR 512 23.5 15.6 17.1 23.9 34.1 39.6 14.6 35.4 23.7 16.5 43.3 28.8 3.4 9.5
mContriever 512 31.0 25.4 24.2 28.7 44.6 50.3 17.2 43.2 27.3 23.6 56.6 37.7 9.0 15.3
mE5large 512 34.2 33.0 26.9 33.0 51.1 49.5 21.0 43.1 29.9 27.1 58.7 42.4 15.9 13.2
E5mistral-7b 8192 42.6 29.6 40.6 43.3 70.2 60.5 23.2 55.3 41.6 32.7 69.5 52.4 18.2 16.8
text-embedding-ada-002 8191 32.5 16.3 34.4 38.7 59.8 53.9 8.0 46.5 28.6 20.7 60.6 34.8 9.0 11.2
jina-embeddings-v2-base-en 8192 - - - 37.0 - - - - - - - - - -
M3-Embedding (Our Work)
Dense 8192 52.5 47.6 46.1 48.9 74.8 73.8 40.7 62.7 50.9 42.9 74.4 59.5 33.6 26.0
Sparse 8192 62.2 58.7 53.0 62.1 87.4 82.7 49.6 74.7 53.9 47.9 85.2 72.9 40.3 40.5
Multi-vec 8192 57.6 56.6 50.4 55.8 79.5 77.2 46.6 66.8 52.8 48.8 77.5 64.2 39.4 32.7
Dense+Sparse 8192 64.8 63.0 56.4 64.2 88.7 84.2 52.3 75.8 58.5 53.1 86.0 75.6 42.9 42.0
All 8192 65.0 64.7 57.9 63.8 86.8 83.9 52.2 75.5 60.1 55.7 85.4 73.8 44.7 40.0
M3-w.o.long
Dense-w.o.long 8192 41.2 35.4 35.2 37.5 64.0 59.3 28.8 53.1 41.7 29.8 63.5 51.1 19.5 16.5
Dense-w.o.long (MCLS) 8192 45.0 37.9 43.3 41.2 67.7 64.6 32.0 55.8 43.4 33.1 67.8 52.8 27.2 18.2
Table 3: Evaluation of multilingual long-doc retrieval on the MLDR test set (measured by nDCG@10).
the multilingual articles from Wikipedia, Wudao
and mC4 (see Table 7), and NarrativeQA (Kocisk ˇ y´
et al., 2018; Gunther et al. ¨ , 2024), which is
only for English. In addition to the previous baselines, we further introduce JinaEmbeddingv2 (Gunther et al. ¨ , 2024), text-embeddingada-002 and text-embedding-3-large from OpenAI
given their outstanding long-doc retrieval capability. For Dense+Sparse method, we set w1 = 0.2,
w2 = 0.8 and w3 = 0 in equation(1). For
All method, we set w1 = 0.15, w2 = 0.5 and
w3 = 0.35 in equation(1).
The evaluation result on MLDR is presented in
Table 3. Interestingly, M3 (Sparse) turns out to be a
more effective method for long document retrieval,
which achieves another about 10 points improvement over the dense method. Besides, the multivector retrieval is also impressive, which brings
5.1+ points improvement over M3 (Dense). Finally,
the combination of different retrieval methods leads
to a remarkable average performance of 65.0.
To explore the reason for M3-Embedding’s competitiveness in long-document retrieval, we perform
the ablation study by removing the long document
data from the fine-tuning stage (denoted as w.o.
long). After this modification, the dense method,
i.e. Dense-w.o.long, can still outperform the majority of baselines, which indicates that its empirical advantage has been well established during the
pre-training stage. We also propose a simple strategy, MCLS, to address this situation (no data or no
GPU resource for document-retrieval fine-tuning).
Experimental results indicate that MCLS can significantly improve the performance of document
retrieval without training (41.2 → 45.0).
We make further analysis with NarrativeQA (TaModel Max Length nDCG@10
Baselines (Prior Work)
mDPR 512 16.3
mContriever 512 23.3
mE5large 512 24.2
E5mistral-7b 8192 49.9
text-embedding-ada-002 8191 41.1
text-embedding-3-large 8191 51.6
jina-embeddings-v2-base-en 8192 39.4
M3-Embedding (Our Work)
Dense 8192 48.7
Sparse 8192 57.5
Multi-vec 8192 55.4
Dense+Sparse 8192 60.1
All 8192 61.7
Table 4: Evaluation on NarrativeQA (nDCG@10).
ble 4), where we can make a similar observation
as MLDR. Besides, with the growth of sequence
length, our method gradually expands its advantage
over baseline methods (Figure 5), which reflects its
proficiency in handling long inputs.
4.4 Ablation study
Self-knowledge distillation. The ablation study is
performed to analyze the impact of self-knowledge
distillation (skd). Particularly, we disable the distillation processing and have each retrieval method
trained independently (denoted as M3-w.o.skd).
According to our evaluation on MIRACL (Table 5), the original method, i.e. M3-w.skd, is able
to achieve better performances than the ablation
method in all settings, i.e., Dense, Sparse, Multivec. Notably, the impact is more pronounced for
sparse retrieval. Such a result also reflects the incompatibility between dense and sparse retrieval
methods. With skd, the incompatibility can be
largely overcome. (More detailed results are available in Appendix C.1.)
Model MIRACL
M3-w.skd
Dense 69.2
Sparse 53.9
Multi-vec 70.5
M3-w.o.skd
Dense 68.7
Sparse 36.7
Multi-vec 69.3
Table 5: Ablation study of self-knowledge distillation
on the MIRACL dev set (nDCG@10).
Model (Dense) MIRACL
Fine-tune 60.5
RetroMAE + Fine-tune 66.1
RetroMAE + Unsup + Fine-tune 69.2
Table 6: Ablation study of multi-stage training on the
MIRACL dev set (nDCG@10).
Impact of multi-stage training. We also make
explorations for the impacts from different training
stages. Fine-tuning indicates the direct fine-tuning
from XLM-RoBERTA (Conneau et al., 2020b);
RetroMAE+Fine-tuning refers to the fine-tuning
on the pre-trained model from RetroMAE (Xiao
et al., 2022). Meanwhile, RetroMAE+Unsup+Finetuning involves fine-tuning on a model that is
trained with RetroMAE and then pre-trained on
unsupervised data. The results are presented in
Table 6. We can observe that RetroMAE can
significantly improve the retrieval performance,
and pre-training on unsupervised data can further
enhance the retrieval quality of the embedding
model. (More detailed results are available in Appendix C.1.)
5 Conclusion
In this paper, we introduce M3-Embedding, which
substantially advances the versatility of text embeddings in terms of supporting multi-lingual retrieval, handling input of diverse granularities, and
unifying different retrieval functionalities. M3-
Embedding presents three technical contributions:
self-knowledge distillation, efficient batching, and
high-quality curation of data. The effectiveness
of M3-Embedding is empirically verified, where
it leads to superior performances on multi-lingual
retrieval, cross-lingual retrieval, and multi-lingual
long-document retrieval tasks.
Limitations
First of all, while our proposed M3-Embedding
model achieves state-of-the-art performance on
popular multi-lingual and cross-lingual benchmarks such as MIRACL and MKQA, it is important to acknowledge that the generalizability of
our approach to diverse datasets and real-world
scenarios needs to be further investigated. Different datasets may have varying characteristics
and challenges that could affect the performance
of our model. Secondly, while M3-Embedding
is designed to process inputs of different granularities, including long documents of up to 8192
tokens, we acknowledge that processing extremely
long documents could pose challenges in terms of
computational resources and model efficiency. The
performance of our model on very long documents
or documents exceeding the specified token limit
needs to be further investigated. Furthermore, we
claim support for more than 100 working languages
in M3-Embedding. However, the potential variations in performance across different languages are
not thoroughly discussed. Further analysis and evaluation on a broader range of languages are necessary to understand the robustness and effectiveness
of our model across different language families and
linguistic characteristics.
Ethics Consideration
Our work proposes a new embedding model called
M3-Embedding, which is distingulished for its versality in multi-linguality, multi-functionality and
multi-granularity. Because our model will be publicly avaliable, it is influenced by the inherent impacts of open-source model. Moreover, we use the
multilingual data including all kinds of languages
in the training of M3-Embedding. However, due to
the uneven distribution of training data for different languages, the model’s performance may vary
across languages, which could potentially be seen
as discriminatory or unfair. We ensure that our
work is conformant to the ACL Ethics Policy7
.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank anonymous reviewers for
their helpful feedback, and ACL 2024 and ACL
Rolling Review organizers for their efforts. This
research is supported by National Science and Technology Major Project (2023ZD0121504).
References
Luiz Bonifacio, Vitor Jeronymo, Hugo Queiroz
Abonizio, Israel Campiotti, Marzieh Fadaee, Roberto
Lotufo, and Rodrigo Nogueira. 2021. mmarco: A
7. https://www.aclweb.org/portal/content/acl-code-ethics
multilingual version of the ms marco passage ranking
dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.13897.
Peter Buhlmann. 2012. Bagging, boosting and ensem- ¨
ble methods. Handbook of computational statistics:
Concepts and methods, pages 985–1022.
Tianqi Chen, Bing Xu, Chiyuan Zhang, and Carlos
Guestrin. 2016. Training deep nets with sublinear
memory cost. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.06174.
Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco
Guzman, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle- ´
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020a. Unsupervised
cross-lingual representation learning at scale. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 8440–
8451, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco
Guzman, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle- ´
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020b. Unsupervised
cross-lingual representation learning at scale. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 8440–
8451, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2020. Context-aware
term weighting for first stage passage retrieval. In
Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR
conference on research and development in Information Retrieval, pages 1533–1536.
Leo Gao, Stella Biderman, Sid Black, Laurence Golding, Travis Hoppe, Charles Foster, Jason Phang,
Horace He, Anish Thite, Noa Nabeshima, Shawn
Presser, and Connor Leahy. 2020. The Pile: An
800gb dataset of diverse text for language modeling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00027.
Luyu Gao, Zhuyun Dai, and Jamie Callan. 2021a.
COIL: Revisit exact lexical match in information
retrieval with contextualized inverted list. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages
3030–3042, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. 2021b.
SimCSE: Simple contrastive learning of sentence embeddings. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 6894–6910, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Michael Gunther, Jackmin Ong, Isabelle Mohr, Alaed- ¨
dine Abdessalem, Tanguy Abel, Mohammad Kalim
Akram, Susana Guzman, Georgios Mastrapas, Saba
Sturua, Bo Wang, Maximilian Werk, Nan Wang,
and Han Xiao. 2024. Jina embeddings 2: 8192-
token general-purpose text embeddings for long documents.
Felix Hamborg, Norman Meuschke, Corinna Breitinger,
and Bela Gipp. 2017. news-please: A generic news
crawler and extractor. In Proceedings of the 15th International Symposium of Information Science, pages
218–223.
Wei He, Kai Liu, Jing Liu, Yajuan Lyu, Shiqi Zhao,
Xinyan Xiao, Yuan Liu, Yizhong Wang, Hua Wu,
Qiaoqiao She, Xuan Liu, Tian Wu, and Haifeng
Wang. 2018. DuReader: a Chinese machine reading
comprehension dataset from real-world applications.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Machine Reading
for Question Answering, pages 37–46, Melbourne,
Australia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sebastian Hofstatter, Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-Hong ¨
Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Allan Hanbury. 2021. Efficiently teaching an effective dense retriever with
balanced topic aware sampling. In Proceedings of
the 44th International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval,
pages 113–122.
Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
and Jason Weston. 2020. Poly-encoders: Architectures and pre-training strategies for fast and accurate
multi-sentence scoring. In 8th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2020, Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia, April 26-30, 2020. OpenReview.net.
Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin,
and Edouard Grave. 2022. Unsupervised dense information retrieval with contrastive learning. Trans.
Mach. Learn. Res., 2022.
Qiao Jin, Bhuwan Dhingra, Zhengping Liu, William
Cohen, and Xinghua Lu. 2019. PubMedQA: A
dataset for biomedical research question answering.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the
9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2567–
2577, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly
supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehension. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1601–1611, Vancouver,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oguz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen-tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for opendomain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 6769–6781,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. 2020. Colbert: Efficient and effective passage search via contextualized
late interaction over bert. In Proceedings of the 43rd
International ACM SIGIR conference on research
and development in Information Retrieval, pages 39–
48.
Mi-Young Kim, Juliano Rabelo, Randy Goebel, Masaharu Yoshioka, Yoshinobu Kano, and Ken Satoh.
2022. Coliee 2022 summary: Methods for legal document retrieval and entailment. In JSAI International
Symposium on Artificial Intelligence, pages 51–67.
Springer.
Toma´s Ko ˇ cisk ˇ y, Jonathan Schwarz, Phil Blunsom, Chris ´
Dyer, Karl Moritz Hermann, Gabor Melis, and Ed- ´
ward Grefenstette. 2018. The NarrativeQA reading
comprehension challenge. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 6:317–328.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti,
Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova, Llion Jones, Matthew
Kelcey, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew M. Dai, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering
research. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 7:452–466.
Haitao Li, Yunqiu Shao, Yueyue Wu, Qingyao Ai, Yixiao Ma, and Yiqun Liu. 2023. Lecardv2: A largescale chinese legal case retrieval dataset. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.17609.
Jimmy Lin and Xueguang Ma. 2021. A few brief notes
on deepimpact, coil, and a conceptual framework
for information retrieval techniques. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2106.14807.
Jimmy Lin, Xueguang Ma, Sheng-Chieh Lin, JhengHong Yang, Ronak Pradeep, and Rodrigo Nogueira.
2021. Pyserini: A Python toolkit for reproducible
information retrieval research with sparse and dense
representations. In Proceedings of the 44th Annual
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research
and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR
2021), pages 2356–2362.
Jimmy Lin, Rodrigo Nogueira, and Andrew Yates. 2022.
Pretrained transformers for text ranking: Bert and
beyond. Springer Nature.
Kyle Lo, Lucy Lu Wang, Mark Neumann, Rodney Kinney, and Daniel Weld. 2020. S2ORC: The semantic
scholar open research corpus. In Proceedings of the
58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 4969–4983, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Shayne Longpre, Yi Lu, and Joachim Daiber. 2021.
MKQA: A linguistically diverse benchmark for multilingual open domain question answering. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:1389–1406.
Yi Luan, Jacob Eisenstein, Kristina Toutanova, and
Michael Collins. 2021. Sparse, dense, and attentional
representations for text retrieval. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:329–
345.
Niklas Muennighoff. 2022. Sgpt: Gpt sentence
embeddings for semantic search. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2202.08904.
Niklas Muennighoff, Thomas Wang, Lintang Sutawika,
Adam Roberts, Stella Biderman, Teven Le Scao,
M Saiful Bari, Sheng Shen, Zheng Xin Yong, Hailey Schoelkopf, Xiangru Tang, Dragomir Radev,
Alham Fikri Aji, Khalid Almubarak, Samuel Albanie, Zaid Alyafeai, Albert Webson, Edward Raff,
and Colin Raffel. 2023. Crosslingual generalization through multitask finetuning. In Proceedings
of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 15991–16111, Toronto, Canada. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Arvind Neelakantan, Tao Xu, Raul Puri, Alec Radford, Jesse Michael Han, Jerry Tworek, Qiming Yuan,
Nikolas Tezak, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, et al.
2022. Text and code embeddings by contrastive pretraining. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.10005.
Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao,
Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, and Li Deng.
2016. Ms marco: A human generated machine reading comprehension dataset. choice, 2640:660.
Jianmo Ni, Gustavo Hernandez Abrego, Noah Constant,
Ji Ma, Keith Hall, Daniel Cer, and Yinfei Yang. 2022.
Sentence-t5: Scalable sentence encoders from pretrained text-to-text models. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022,
pages 1864–1874, Dublin, Ireland. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
NLLB Team, Marta R. Costa-jussa, James Cross, Onur `
C¸ elebi, Maha Elbayad, Kenneth Heafield, Kevin Heffernan, Elahe Kalbassi, Janice Lam, Daniel Licht,
Jean Maillard, Anna Sun, Skyler Wang, Guillaume
Wenzek, Al Youngblood, Bapi Akula, Loic Barrault, Gabriel Mejia-Gonzalez, Prangthip Hansanti,
John Hoffman, Semarley Jarrett, Kaushik Ram
Sadagopan, Dirk Rowe, Shannon Spruit, Chau
Tran, Pierre Andrews, Necip Fazil Ayan, Shruti
Bhosale, Sergey Edunov, Angela Fan, Cynthia
Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Francisco Guzman, Philipp ´
Koehn, Alexandre Mourachko, Christophe Ropers,
Safiyyah Saleem, Holger Schwenk, and Jeff Wang.
2022. No language left behind: Scaling humancentered machine translation.
Telmo Pires, Eva Schlinger, and Dan Garrette. 2019.
How multilingual is multilingual BERT? In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 4996–5001, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yingqi Qu, Yuchen Ding, Jing Liu, Kai Liu, Ruiyang
Ren, Wayne Xin Zhao, Daxiang Dong, Hua Wu, and
Haifeng Wang. 2021. RocketQA: An optimized training approach to dense passage retrieval for opendomain question answering. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 5835–5847, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J. Liu. 2019. Exploring the limits
of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. arXiv e-prints.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and
Percy Liang. 2016. SQuAD: 100,000+ questions for
machine comprehension of text. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2383–2392, Austin,
Texas. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. SentenceBERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERTnetworks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
3982–3992, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ruiyang Ren, Yingqi Qu, Jing Liu, Wayne Xin Zhao,
QiaoQiao She, Hua Wu, Haifeng Wang, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2021. RocketQAv2: A joint training method
for dense passage retrieval and passage re-ranking.
In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
2825–2835, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. 2009. The
probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and beyond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr., 3(4):333–389.
Holger Schwenk, Guillaume Wenzek, Sergey Edunov,
Edouard Grave, Armand Joulin, and Angela Fan.
2021. CCMatrix: Mining billions of high-quality
parallel sentences on the web. In Proceedings of the
59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 6490–6500, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing
Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder,
and Furu Wei. 2022. Text embeddings by weaklysupervised contrastive pre-training. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.03533.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Linjun Yang,
Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei. 2023. Improving
text embeddings with large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2401.00368.
Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Yingxia Shao, and Zhao Cao.
2022. RetroMAE: Pre-training retrieval-oriented language models via masked auto-encoder. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 538–548, Abu
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Peitian Zhang, and Niklas
Muennighoff. 2023. C-pack: Packaged resources
to advance general chinese embedding.
Xiaohui Xie, Qian Dong, Bingning Wang, Feiyang Lv,
Ting Yao, Weinan Gan, Zhijing Wu, Xiangsheng Li,
Haitao Li, Yiqun Liu, et al. 2023. T2ranking: A
large-scale chinese benchmark for passage ranking.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03679.
Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang,
Jialin Liu, Paul Bennett, Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold
Overwijk. 2020. Approximate nearest neighbor negative contrastive learning for dense text retrieval.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.00808.
Linting Xue, Noah Constant, Adam Roberts, Mihir Kale,
Rami Al-Rfou, Aditya Siddhant, Aditya Barua, and
Colin Raffel. 2021. mT5: A massively multilingual
pre-trained text-to-text transformer. In Proceedings
of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, pages 483–498, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio,
William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset for
diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering.
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sha Yuan, Hanyu Zhao, Zhengxiao Du, Ming Ding,
Xiao Liu, Yukuo Cen, Xu Zou, Zhilin Yang, and
Jie Tang. 2021. Wudaocorpora: A super large-scale
chinese corpora for pre-training language models. AI
Open, 2:65–68.
Hang Zhang, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Jiancheng
Lv, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. 2021a. Adversarial retriever-ranker for dense text retrieval. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2110.03611.
Peitian Zhang, Shitao Xiao, Zheng Liu, Zhicheng Dou,
and Jian-Yun Nie. 2023a. Retrieve anything to augment large language models.
S. Zhang, X. Zhang, H. Wang, L. Guo, and S. Liu. 2018.
Multi-scale attentive interaction networks for chinese
medical question answer selection. IEEE Access,
6:74061–74071.
Xinyu Zhang, Xueguang Ma, Peng Shi, and Jimmy Lin.
2021b. Mr. TyDi: A multi-lingual benchmark for
dense retrieval. In Proceedings of the 1st Workshop
on Multilingual Representation Learning, pages 127–
137, Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Xinyu Zhang, Kelechi Ogueji, Xueguang Ma, and
Jimmy Lin. 2023b. Toward best practices for training
multilingual dense retrieval models. ACM Transactions on Information Systems, 42(2):1–33.
Xinyu Zhang, Nandan Thakur, Odunayo Ogundepo,
Ehsan Kamalloo, David Alfonso-Hermelo, Xiaoguang Li, Qun Liu, Mehdi Rezagholizadeh, and
Jimmy Lin. 2023c. MIRACL: A multilingual retrieval dataset covering 18 diverse languages. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 11:1114–1131.
A Details of Datasets
A.1 Collected Data
The language and length distribution (the number
of tokens) of the unsupervised data are illustrated
in Figure 4.
We observed that for long texts (e.g., the news
in cc-news), the initial sentences tend to be summarizing statements, and the model can rely solely
on the information presented in these initial sentences to establish relevant relationships. To prevent the model from focusing solely on these starting sentences, we implemented a strategy of randomly shuffling the order of segments within entire
texts. Specifically, we divided the text into three
segments, shuffled their order randomly, and recombined them. This approach allows relevant text
segments to appear randomly at any position within
the long sequence. During training, we applied this
operation to passages with a probability of 0.2%.
A.2 Synthetic Data
The prompt for GPT3.5 is “You are a curious AI
assistant, please generate one specific and valuable
question based on the following text. The generated
question should revolve around the core content of
this text, and avoid using pronouns (e.g., ”this”).
Note that you should generate only one question,
without including additional content:”. The details
of generated dataset are shown in Table 7.
B Implementation Details
B.1 Experimental Hyperparameters
We adopt a further pre-trained XLM-RoBERTa8
as
the foundational model. We extend the max position to 8192 and update the model via the RetroMAE (Xiao et al., 2022) method. The data comprises Pile (Gao et al., 2020), Wudao (Yuan et al.,
2021), and mC4 (Raffel et al., 2019) datasets. We
sampled a total of 184 million text samples from
these sources, covering 105 languages. The maximum sequence length is 8192 and the learning rate
is 7 × 10−5
. The batch size is set to 32 and we
accumulate the gradient over 16 steps. Pre-training
is conducted on 32 A100(40GB) GPUs for 20,000
steps.
For the pre-training with the massive unsupervised data, the max length of query and passage is
set to 512 and 8192, respectively. The learning rate
is 5 × 10−5
, the warmup ratio is 0.1 and the weight
8. https://huggingface.co/FacebookAI/xlm-roberta-large
decay is 0.01. This training process takes 25,000
steps. For training data with different sequence
length ranges (e.g., 0-500, 500-1000, etc.), we use
different batch sizes. The details are represented
in Table 9. The second stage is conducted on 96
A800(80GB) GPUs.
In the fine-tuning stage, we sample 7 negatives
for each query. Refer to Table 9 for the batch size.
In the initial phase, we employed approximately
6000 steps to perform warm-up on dense embedding, sparse embedding and multi-vectors. Subsequently, we conducted unified training with selfknowledge distillation. These experiments were
carried out on 24 A800(80GB) GPUs.
B.2 MCLS Method
The fine-tuning using long text can be constrained
due to the absence of long text data or computation
resources. In this situation, we propose a simple
but effective method: MCLS(Multiple CLS) to enhance the model’s ability without fine-tuning on
long text. The MCLS method aims to utilize multiple CLS tokens to jointly capture the semantics of
long texts. Specifically, we insert a CLS token for
every fixed number of tokens (in our experiments,
we insert a “[CLS]” for each 256 tokens), and each
CLS token can capture semantic information from
its neighboring tokens. Ultimately, the final text
embedding is obtained by averaging the last hidden
states of all CLS tokens.
B.3 Split-batch Method
Algorithm 1 Pseudocode of split-batch.
# enable gradient-checkpointing
M3.gradient_checkpointing_enable()
embs = []
for batch_data in loader:
# split the large batch into multiple sub-batch
for sub_batch_data in batch_data:
sub_emb = M3(sub_batch_data)
# only collect the embs
embs.append(sub_emb)
# concatenate the outputs to get final embeddings
embs = cat(embs)
Algorthm 1 provides the pseudo-code of the splitbatch strategy. For the current batch, we partition
it into multiple smaller sub-batches. For each subbatch we utilize the model to generate embeddings,
discarding all intermediate activations via gradient
checkpointing during the forward pass. Finally,
we gather the encoded results from all sub-batch,
and obtain the embeddings for the current batch.
It is crucial to enable the gradient-checkpointing
Language Source #train #dev #test #cropus Avg. Length of Docs
ar Wikipedia 1,817 200 200 7,607 9,428
de Wikipedia, mC4 1,847 200 200 10,000 9,039
en Wikipedia 10,000 200 800 200,000 3,308
es Wikipedia, mC4 2,254 200 200 9,551 8,771
fr Wikipedia 1,608 200 200 10,000 9,659
hi Wikipedia 1,618 200 200 3,806 5,555
it Wikipedia 2,151 200 200 10,000 9,195
ja Wikipedia 2,262 200 200 10,000 9,297
ko Wikipedia 2,198 200 200 6,176 7,832
pt Wikipedia 1,845 200 200 6,569 7,922
ru Wikipedia 1,864 200 200 10,000 9,723
th mC4 1,970 200 200 10,000 8,089
zh Wikipedia, Wudao 10,000 200 800 200,000 4,249
Total – 41,434 2,600 3,800 493,709 4,737
Table 7: Specifications of MultiLongDoc dataset.
Data Source Language Size
Unsupervised Data
MTP EN, ZH 291.1M
S2ORC, Wikipeida EN 48.3M
xP3, mC4,
CC-News Multi-Lingual 488.4M
NLLB, CCMatrix Cross-Lingual 391.3M
CodeSearchNet Text-Code 344.1K
Total – 1.2B
Fine-tuning Data
MS MARCO,
HotpotQA, NQ,
NLI, etc.
EN 1.1M
DuReader,
T
2
-Ranking,
NLI-zh, etc.
ZH 386.6K
MIRACL,
Mr.TyDi Multi-Lingual 88.9K
MultiLongDoc Multi-Lingual 41.4K
Table 8: Specification of training data.
strategy; otherwise, the intermediate activations
for each sub-batch will continuously accumulate,
ultimately occupying the same amount of GPU
memory as traditional methods.
In Table 10, we investigate the impact of splitbatch on batch size. It can be observed that, with
the split-batch enabled, there is a significant increase in batch size. Simultaneously, the increase
becomes more pronounced with longer text lengths,
and in the case of a length of 8192, enabling splitbatch results in a growth of batch size by over 20
times.
Length Range
Batch Size
Unsupervised Fine-tuning
0-500 67,200 1,152
500-1000 54,720 768
1000-2000 37,248 480
2000-3000 27,648 432
3000-4000 21,504 336
4000-5000 17,280 336
5000-6000 15,072 288
6000-7000 12,288 240
7000-8192 9,984 192
Table 9: Detailed total batch size used in training for
data with different sequence length ranges.
C More Results
C.1 Additional Resutls
In this section, we present additional evaluation
results on the MIRACL and MKQA benchmarks.
As shown in Table 12 and 13, M3-Embedding outperforms all baselines on average.
The detailed results of ablation studies of selfknowledge distillation and multi-stage training on
the MIRACL dev set are shown in Table 14 and
Table 15.
C.2 Different Tokenizer for BM25
We investigate the impact of different tokenizers
on the BM25 method, and the results are shown in
Table 11. We can observe that:
Figure 4: Language and sequence length distribution of unsupervised data
Use Split-batch
Max Length
1024 4096 8192
× 262 25 6
√
855 258 130
Table 10: Maximum batch size per device under different experimental settings.
Figure 5: NarrativeQA with variant sequence length.
• Using the Analyzer from Lucene9
can significantly enhance the effectiveness of BM25.
Lucene analyzer includes multiple steps typically including tokenization, stemming, stopword removal, etc, achieving better results
than directly using the tokenzier of XLMRoBERTa. Additionally, it’s worth noting
that the vocabulary size of the tokenizer from
XLM-RoBERTa is limited, resulting in fewer
9. https://github.com/apache/lucene/tree/main/lucene/analysis/common/src/java/org/apache/lucene/analysis
Method Tokenizer MIRACL MKQA MLDR
BM25 Analyzer 38.5 40.9 64.1
BM25 XLM-R 31.9 39.9 53.6
M3(Sparse) XLM-R 53.9 45.3 62.2
M3(All) XLM-R 71.5 75.5 65.0
Table 11: Comparison with the BM25 methods using
different tokenizers.
unique tokens after encoding documents (for
example, on the MLDR dataset, the tokenizer
of XLM-RoBERTa produces 1056 unique
terms per article, while Lucene’s analyzer generates 1451 unique terms, which is over 37%
more and will increase retrieval latency).
• M3 outperforms BM25 models using the same
tokenizer on all datasets, indicating that the
learned weights are significantly better than
the weights calculated by BM25.
• The sparse retrieval of M3 outperforms BM25
on MIRACL and MKQA datasets. In long
document retrieval (MLDR), M3’s sparse
doesn’t surpass BM25 but achieves competitive performance. This suggests that BM25
remains a highly competitive baseline model.
Exploring tokenizers that perform better for
sparse representation is a worthwhile topic for
future research.
Model Avg ar bn en es fa fi fr hi id ja ko ru sw te th zh de yo
Baselines (Prior Work)
BM25 67.3 78.7 90.0 63.6 25.4 68.1 81.2 50.2 73.8 71.8 73.6 70.1 56.4 69.9 73.3 87.5 55.1 42.8 80.1
mDPR 79.0 84.1 81.9 76.8 86.4 89.8 78.8 91.5 77.6 57.3 82.5 73.7 79.7 61.6 76.2 67.8 94.4 89.8 71.5
mContriever 84.9 92.5 92.1 79.7 84.1 65.4 95.3 82.4 64.6 80.2 87.8 87.5 85.0 91.1 96.1 93.6 90.3 84.1 77.0
mE5large 94.1 97.3 98.2 87.6 89.1 92.9 98.1 90.6 93.9 87.9 97.1 93.4 95.5 96.7 99.2 98.9 93.3 90.7 93.1
E5mistral-7b 92.7 96.0 96.0 90.2 87.5 88.0 96.7 92.8 89.9 88.4 95.1 89.4 95.0 95.5 95.1 96.5 90.1 88.7 97.9
M3-Embedding (Our Work)
Dense 95.5 97.6 98.7 90.7 91.1 94.0 97.9 93.8 94.4 90.5 97.5 95.5 95.9 97.2 99.4 99.1 96.9 90.9 98.7
Sparse 85.6 92.0 96.7 81.5 72.1 87.0 91.5 73.3 87.1 84.8 92.4 91.7 76.9 85.1 98.1 95.2 72.9 69.1 92.9
Multi-vec 96.3 97.8 98.9 91.7 92.4 94.9 98.2 96.1 95.1 92.5 98.0 95.9 96.6 97.3 99.4 99.2 97.3 92.4 99.2
Dense+Sparse 96.2 98.0 98.9 92.4 92.5 95.6 98.3 94.6 95.6 92.6 97.5 95.6 96.6 97.4 99.1 99.0 96.8 91.0 100.0
All 96.4 98.0 98.9 92.1 92.9 95.6 98.4 95.6 95.2 92.5 98.0 96.0 96.7 97.2 99.4 99.2 97.6 92.3 99.2
Table 12: Recall@100 on the dev set of the MIRACL dataset for multilingual retrieval in all 18 languages.
Baselines (Prior Work) M3-Embedding (Our Work)
BM25 mDPR mContriever mE5large E5mistral-7b OpenAI-3 Dense Sparse Multi-vec Dense+Sparse All
ar 13.4 33.8 43.8 59.7 47.6 55.1 61.9 19.5 62.6 61.9 63.0
da 36.2 55.7 63.3 71.7 72.3 67.6 71.2 45.1 71.7 71.3 72.0
de 23.3 53.2 60.2 71.2 70.8 67.6 69.8 33.2 69.6 70.2 70.4
es 29.8 55.4 62.3 70.8 71.6 68.0 69.8 40.3 70.3 70.2 70.7
fi 33.2 42.8 58.7 67.7 63.6 65.5 67.8 41.2 68.3 68.4 68.9
fr 30.3 56.5 62.6 69.5 72.7 68.2 69.6 43.2 70.1 70.1 70.8
he 16.1 34.0 50.5 61.4 32.4 46.3 63.4 24.5 64.4 63.5 64.6
hu 26.1 46.1 57.1 68.0 68.3 64.0 67.1 34.5 67.3 67.7 67.9
it 31.5 53.8 62.0 71.2 71.3 67.6 69.7 41.5 69.9 69.9 70.3
ja 14.5 46.3 50.7 63.1 57.6 64.2 67.0 23.3 67.8 67.1 67.9
km 20.7 20.6 18.7 18.3 23.3 25.7 58.5 24.4 59.2 58.9 59.5
ko 18.3 36.8 44.9 58.9 49.4 53.9 61.9 24.3 63.2 62.1 63.3
ms 42.3 53.8 63.7 70.2 71.1 66.1 71.6 52.5 72.1 71.8 72.3
nl 42.5 56.9 63.9 73.0 74.5 68.8 71.3 52.9 71.8 71.7 72.3
no 38.5 55.2 63.0 71.1 70.8 67.0 70.7 47.0 71.4 71.1 71.6
pl 28.7 50.4 60.9 70.5 71.5 66.1 69.4 36.4 70.0 69.9 70.4
pt 31.8 52.5 61.0 66.8 71.6 67.7 69.3 40.2 70.0 69.8 70.6
ru 21.8 49.8 57.9 70.6 68.7 65.1 69.4 29.2 70.0 69.4 70.0
sv 41.1 54.9 62.7 72.0 73.3 67.8 70.5 49.8 71.3 71.5 71.5
th 28.4 40.9 54.4 69.7 57.1 55.2 69.6 34.7 70.5 69.8 70.8
tr 33.5 45.5 59.9 67.3 65.5 64.9 68.2 40.9 69.0 69.1 69.6
vi 33.6 51.3 59.9 68.7 62.3 63.5 69.6 42.2 70.5 70.2 70.9
zh cn 19.4 50.1 55.9 44.3 61.2 62.7 66.4 26.9 66.7 66.6 67.3
zh hk 23.9 50.2 55.5 46.4 55.9 61.4 65.8 31.2 66.4 65.9 66.7
zh tw 22.5 50.6 55.2 45.9 56.5 61.6 64.8 29.8 65.3 64.9 65.6
Avg 28.1 47.9 56.3 63.5 62.4 62.1 67.8 36.3 68.4 68.1 68.8
Table 13: Recall@20 on MKQA dataset for cross-lingual retrieval in all 25 languages.
Model Avg ar bn en es fa fi fr hi id ja ko ru sw te th zh de yo
M3-w.skd
Dense 69.2 78.4 80.0 56.9 56.1 60.9 78.6 58.3 59.5 56.1 72.8 69.9 70.1 78.7 86.2 82.6 62.7 56.7 81.8
Sparse 53.9 67.1 68.9 43.8 38.6 45.1 65.4 35.3 48.2 48.9 56.1 61.5 44.5 57.9 79.1 70.9 36.1 32.5 70.0
Multi-vec 70.5 79.6 81.0 59.3 57.8 62.0 80.1 59.4 61.5 58.3 74.5 71.2 71.2 79.1 87.9 83.0 63.7 58.0 82.4
M3-w.o.skd
Dense 68.7 78.0 79.1 56.4 55.4 60.3 78.3 58.2 59.0 55.1 72.4 68.8 69.5 77.8 85.8 82.5 63.0 56.0 80.6
Sparse 36.7 48.2 51.9 24.3 20.3 26.0 48.6 16.8 30.1 32.0 33.0 43.1 27.2 45.2 63.6 52.2 22.6 16.5 59.2
Multi-vec 69.3 78.7 80.2 57.6 56.7 60.5 79.0 58.4 59.3 57.5 74.0 70.3 70.2 78.6 86.9 82.1 61.9 56.7 78.2
Table 14: Ablation study of self-knowledge distillation on the MIRACL dev set (nDCG@10).
Model Avg ar bn en es fa fi fr hi id ja ko ru sw te th zh de yo
Fine-tune
Dense 60.5 71.0 72.5 47.6 46.7 51.8 72.3 50.9 48.9 48.9 65.7 60.5 60.9 71.9 81.3 74.7 54.4 48.7 60.6
RetroMAE + Fine-tune
Dense 66.1 75.9 77.9 54.5 54.0 58.3 76.6 55.1 57.0 53.9 70.1 66.9 66.9 74.8 86.1 79.5 61.9 52.7 67.5
RetroMAE + Unsup + Fine-tune
Dense 69.2 78.4 80.0 56.9 56.1 60.9 78.6 58.3 59.5 56.1 72.8 69.9 70.1 78.7 86.2 82.6 62.7 56.7 81.8
Table 15: Ablation study of multi-stage training on the MIRACL dev set (nDCG@10).
LayoutLMv3: Pre-training for Document AI
with Unified Text and Image Masking
Yupan Huang∗
Sun Yat-sen University
huangyp28@mail2.sysu.edu.cn
Tengchao Lv
Microsoft Research Asia
tengchaolv@microsoft.com
Lei Cui
Microsoft Research Asia
lecu@microsoft.com
Yutong Lu
Sun Yat-sen University
luyutong@mail.sysu.edu.cn
Furu Wei
Microsoft Research Asia
fuwei@microsoft.com
ABSTRACT
Self-supervised pre-training techniques have achieved remarkable
progress in Document AI. Most multimodal pre-trained models
use a masked language modeling objective to learn bidirectional
representations on the text modality, but they differ in pre-training
objectives for the image modality. This discrepancy adds difficulty
to multimodal representation learning. In this paper, we propose
LayoutLMv3 to pre-train multimodal Transformers for Document
AI with unified text and image masking. Additionally, LayoutLMv3
is pre-trained with a word-patch alignment objective to learn crossmodal alignment by predicting whether the corresponding image
patch of a text word is masked. The simple unified architecture
and training objectives make LayoutLMv3 a general-purpose pretrained model for both text-centric and image-centric Document AI
tasks. Experimental results show that LayoutLMv3 achieves stateof-the-art performance not only in text-centric tasks, including
form understanding, receipt understanding, and document visual
question answering, but also in image-centric tasks such as document image classification and document layout analysis. The code
and models are publicly available at https://aka.ms/layoutlmv3.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Applied computing → Document analysis; • Computing
methodologies → Natural language processing.
KEYWORDS
document ai, layoutlm, multimodal pre-training, vision-and-language
ACM Reference Format:
Yupan Huang, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Yutong Lu, and Furu Wei. 2022. LayoutLMv3: Pre-training for Document AI with Unified Text and Image Masking. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Multimedia
(MM ’22), October 10–14, 2022, Lisboa, Portugal. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3503161.3548112
∗Contribution during internship at Microsoft Research. Corresponding authors: Lei
Cui and Furu Wei.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
MM ’22, October 10–14, 2022, Lisboa, Portugal
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9203-7/22/10. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3503161.3548112
(a) Text-centric form understanding on FUNSD
(b) Image-centric layout analysis on PubLayNet
Figure 1: Examples of Document AI Tasks.
1 INTRODUCTION
In recent years, pre-training techniques have been making waves
in the Document AI community by achieving remarkable progress
on document understanding tasks [2, 13–15, 17, 25, 28, 31, 32, 40,
41, 50, 52, 54–56]. As shown in Figure 1, a pre-trained Document
AI model can parse layout and extract key information for various
documents such as scanned forms and academic papers, which is
important for industrial applications and academic research [8].
Self-supervised pre-training techniques have made rapid progress
in representation learning due to their successful applications of reconstructive pre-training objectives. In NLP research, BERT firstly
proposed “masked language modeling” (MLM) to learn bidirectional representations by predicting the original vocabulary id of
a randomly masked word token based on its context [9]. Whereas
most performant multimodal pre-trained Document AI models use
the MLM proposed by BERT for text modality, they differ in pretraining objectives for image modality as depicted in Figure 2. For
example, DocFormer learns to reconstruct image pixels through a
CNN decoder [2], which tends to learn noisy details rather than
high-level structures such as document layouts [43, 45]. SelfDoc
proposes to regress masked region features [31], which is noisier
and harder to learn than classifying discrete features in a smaller
vocabulary [6, 18]. The different granularities of image (e.g., dense
image pixels or contiguous region features) and text (i.e., discrete
arXiv:2204.08387v3 [cs.CL] 19 Jul 2022
Faster R-CNN
Linear Embedding
CNN
Word Embedding
Masked Word
Token Classification
Visual Transformer (Optional)
Origin Image
Reconstruction
(a) Patch
(LayoutLMv3)
“A few
number of
tumor cell…”
Masked Patch
Token Classification
(c) Region
(e.g., SelfDoc)
(b) Grid
(e.g., DocFormer)
Masked Region
Feature Regression
𝑖𝑑𝑡1, 𝑖𝑑𝑡2, 𝑖𝑑𝑡3,
𝑖𝑑𝑡4, 𝑖𝑑𝑡5, 𝑖𝑑𝑡6, …
Text
Multimodal Transformer
(2) Pre-training Objectives of Image Modality
(1) Image Embedding
Image
𝑖𝑑𝑖1 𝑖𝑑𝑖2 𝑖𝑑𝑖3
𝑖𝑑𝑖4 𝑖𝑑𝑖5 𝑖𝑑𝑖6
𝑖𝑑𝑖7 𝑖𝑑𝑖8 𝑖𝑑𝑖9
Figure 2: Comparisons with existing works (e.g., DocFormer
[2] and SelfDoc [31]) on (1) image embedding: our LayoutLMv3 uses linear patches to reduce the computational
bottleneck of CNNs and eliminate the need for region supervision in training object detectors; (2) pre-training objectives
on image modality: our LayoutLMv3 learns to reconstruct
discrete image tokens of masked patches instead of raw pixels or region features to capture high-level layout structures
rather than noisy details.
tokens) objectives further add difficulty to cross-modal alignment
learning, which is essential to multimodal representation learning.
To overcome the discrepancy in pre-training objectives of text
and image modalities and facilitate multimodal representation learning, we propose LayoutLMv3 to pre-train multimodal Transformers for Document AI with unified text and image masking objectives
MLM and MIM. As shown in Figure 3, LayoutLMv3 learns to reconstruct masked word tokens of the text modality and symmetrically
reconstruct masked patch tokens of the image modality. Inspired
by DALL-E [43] and BEiT [3], we obtain the target image tokens
from latent codes of a discrete VAE. For documents, each text word
corresponds to an image patch. To learn this cross-modal alignment,
we propose a Word-Patch Alignment (WPA) objective to predict
whether the corresponding image patch of a text word is masked.
Inspired by ViT [11] and ViLT [22], LayoutLMv3 directly leverages raw image patches from document images without complex
pre-processing steps such as page object detection. LayoutLMv3
jointly learns image, text and multimodal representations in a Transformer model with unified MLM, MIM and WPA objectives. This
makes LayoutLMv3 the first multimodal pre-trained Document AI
model without CNNs for image embeddings, which significantly
saves parameters and gets rid of region annotations. The simple
unified architecture and objectives make LayoutLMv3 a generalpurpose pre-trained model for both text-centric tasks and imagecentric Document AI tasks.
We evaluated pre-trained LayoutLMv3 models across five public benchmarks, including text-centric benchmarks: FUNSD [20]
for form understanding, CORD [39] for receipt understanding,
DocVQA [38] for document visual question answering, and imagecentric benchmarks: RVL-CDIP [16] for document image classification, PubLayNet [59] for document layout analysis. Experiment
results demonstrate that LayoutLMv3 achieves state-of-the-art performance on these benchmarks with parameter efficiency. Furthermore, LayoutLMv3 is easy to reproduce for its simple and neat
architecture and pre-training objectives.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• LayoutLMv3 is the first multimodal model in Document AI
that does not rely on a pre-trained CNN or Faster R-CNN
backbone to extract visual features, which significantly saves
parameters and eliminates region annotations.
• LayoutLMv3 mitigates the discrepancy between text and
image multimodal representation learning with unified discrete token reconstructive objectives MLM and MIM. We
further propose a Word-Patch Alignment (WPA) objective
to facilitate cross-modal alignment learning.
• LayoutLMv3 is a general-purpose model for both text-centric
and image-centric Document AI tasks. For the first time, we
demonstrate the generality of multimodal Transformers to
vision tasks in Document AI.
• Experimental results show that LayoutLMv3 achieves stateof-the-art performance in text-centric tasks and image-centric
tasks in Document AI. The code and models are publicly
available at https://aka.ms/layoutlmv3.
2 LAYOUTLMV3
Figure 3 gives an overview of the LayoutLMv3.
2.1 Model Architecture
LayoutLMv3 applies a unified text-image multimodal Transformer
to learn cross-modal representations. The Transformer has a multilayer architecture and each layer mainly consists of multi-head
self-attention and position-wise fully connected feed-forward networks [49]. The input of Transformer is a concatenation of text
embedding Y = y1:𝐿 and image embedding X = x1:𝑀 sequences,
where 𝐿 and 𝑀 are sequence lengths for text and image respectively.
Through the Transformer, the last layer outputs text-and-image
contextual representations.
Text Embedding. Text embedding is a combination of word embeddings and position embeddings. We pre-processed document
images with an off-the-shelf OCR toolkit to obtain textual content and corresponding 2D position information. We initialize the
word embeddings with a word embedding matrix from a pre-trained
model RoBERTa [36]. The position embeddings include 1D position
and 2D layout position embeddings, where the 1D position refers
to the index of tokens within the text sequence, and the 2D layout position refers to the bounding box coordinates of the text
Multimodal Transformer
Seg1
[MASK]
1
+
+
Seg1
[MASK]
2
+
+
Seg2
T3
3
+
+
V1 [MASK]
1
+
2
+
3
+
[SPE] [MASK]
0
+
Seg3
T4
4
+
+
SegPAD
[CLS]
0
+
+
4
+
V4
h
MLM Head MIM Head
T2
h
V2
h
V3
Pre-training
Objectives
Word/Patch
Embedding
1D Position
Embedding
Flatten
Masking
OCR Parser
Masking
2D Position
Embedding
h
T1
SegPAD
[SEP]
5
+
+
h
WPA Head
Aligned
h
Unaligned
Patch1
+
Patch2
+
Patch3
+
PatchPAD
+
Patch4
+
Image Patches Document Image
Resize
Split
(Unaligned)
(Aligned)
(T1) (T2) (V2) (V3)
Linear
Embedding
Word
Embedding
Figure 3: The architecture and pre-training objectives of LayoutLMv3. LayoutLMv3 is a pre-trained multimodal Transformer
for Document AI with unified text and image masking objectives. Given an input document image and its corresponding text
and layout position information, the model takes the linear projection of patches and word tokens as inputs and encodes them
into contextualized vector representations. LayoutLMv3 is pre-trained with discrete token reconstructive objectives of Masked
Language Modeling (MLM) and Masked Image Modeling (MIM). Additionally, LayoutLMv3 is pre-trained with a Word-Patch
Alignment (WPA) objective to learn cross-modal alignment by predicting whether the corresponding image patch of a text
word is masked. “Seg” denotes segment-level positions. “[CLS]”, “[MASK]”, “[SEP]” and “[SPE]” are special tokens.
sequence. Following the LayoutLM, we normalize all coordinates
by the size of images, and use embedding layers to embed x-axis,
y-axis, width and height features separately [54]. The LayoutLM
and LayoutLMv2 adopt word-level layout positions, where each
word has its positions. Instead, we adopt segment-level layout positions that words in a segment share the same 2D position since the
words usually express the same semantic meaning [28].
Image Embedding. Existing multimodal models in Document AI
either extract CNN grid features [2, 56] or rely on an object detector
like Faster R-CNN [44] to extract region features [14, 31, 40, 54]
for image embeddings, which accounts for heavy computation
bottleneck or require region supervision. Inspired by ViT [11] and
ViLT [22], we represent document images with linear projection
features of image patches before feeding them into the multimodal
Transformer. Specifically, we resize a document image into 𝐻 ×𝑊
and denote the image with I ∈ R
𝐶×𝐻×𝑊 , where 𝐶, 𝐻 and𝑊 are the
channel size, width and height of the image respectively. We then
split the image into a sequence of uniform 𝑃 × 𝑃 patches, linearly
project the image patches to 𝐷 dimensions and flatten them into
a sequence of vectors, which length is 𝑀 = 𝐻𝑊 /𝑃
2
. Then we add
learnable 1D position embeddings to each patch since we have
not observed improvements from using 2D position embeddings in
our preliminary experiments. LayoutLMv3 is the first multimodal
model in Document AI that does not rely on CNNs to extract image
features, which is vital to Document AI models to reduce parameters
or remove complex pre-processing steps.
We insert semantic 1D relative position and spatial 2D relative
position as bias terms in self-attention networks for text and image
modalities following LayoutLMv2[56].
2.2 Pre-training Objectives
LayoutLMv3 is pre-trained with the MLM, MIM, and WPA objectives to learn multimodal representation in a self-supervised learning manner. Full pre-training objectives of LayoutLMv3 is defined
as 𝐿 = 𝐿𝑀𝐿𝑀 + 𝐿𝑀𝐼𝑀 + 𝐿𝑊 𝑃𝐴.
Objective I: Masked Language Modeling (MLM). For the language side, our MLM is inspired by the masked language modeling in BERT [9] and masked visual-language modeling in LayoutLM [54] and LayoutLMv2 [56]. We mask 30% of text tokens with
a span masking strategy with span lengths drawn from a Poisson
distribution (𝜆 = 3) [21, 27]. The pre-training objective is to maximize the log-likelihood of the correct masked text tokens y𝑙 based
on the contextual representations of corrupted sequences of image
tokens X
𝑀′
and text tokens Y
𝐿
′
, where 𝑀′
and 𝐿
′
represent the
masked positions. We denote parameters of the Transformer model
with 𝜃 and minimize the subsequent cross-entropy loss:
𝐿𝑀𝐿𝑀 (𝜃) = −
𝐿
∑︁′
𝑙=1
log 𝑝𝜃

yℓ
| X
𝑀′
, Y
𝐿
′

(1)
As we keep the layout information unchanged, this objective facilitates the model to learn the correspondence between layout
information and text and image context.
Objective II: Masked Image Modeling (MIM). To encourage
the model to interpret visual content from contextual text and
image representations, we adapt the MIM pre-training objective in
BEiT [3] to our multimodal Transformer model. The MIM objective
is a symmetry to the MLM objective, that we randomly mask a
percentage of about 40% image tokens with the blockwise masking
strategy [3]. The MIM objective is driven by a cross-entropy loss
to reconstruct the masked image tokens x𝑚 under the context of
their surrounding text and image tokens.
𝐿𝑀𝐼𝑀 (𝜃) = −
∑︁
𝑀′
𝑚=1
log 𝑝𝜃

x𝑚 | X
𝑀′
, Y
𝐿
′

(2)
The labels of image tokens come from an image tokenizer, which
can transform dense image pixels into discrete tokens according to
a visual vocabulary [43]. Thus MIM facilitates learning high-level
layout structures rather than noisy low-level details.
Objective III: Word-Patch Alignment (WPA). For documents,
each text word corresponds to an image patch. As we randomly
mask text and image tokens with MLM and MIM respectively, there
is no explicit alignment learning between text and image modalities.
We thus propose a WPA objective to learn a fine-grained alignment
between text words and image patches. The WPA objective is to
predict whether the corresponding image patches of a text word
are masked. Specifically, we assign an aligned label to an unmasked
text token when its corresponding image tokens are also unmasked.
Otherwise, we assign an unaligned label. We exclude the masked
text tokens when calculating WPA loss to prevent the model from
learning a correspondence between masked text words and image
patches. We use a two-layer MLP head that inputs contextual text
and image and outputs the binary aligned/unaligned labels with a
binary cross-entropy loss:
𝐿𝑊 𝑃𝐴 (𝜃) = −
𝐿−𝐿
∑︁′
ℓ=1
log 𝑝𝜃

zℓ
| X
𝑀′
, Y
𝐿
′

, (3)
where 𝐿−𝐿
′
is the number of unmasked text tokens, zℓ
is the binary
label of language token in the ℓ position.
3 EXPERIMENTS
3.1 Model Configurations
The network architecture of LayoutLMv3 follows that of LayoutLM [54]
and LayoutLMv2 [56] for a fair comparison. We use base and large
model sizes for LayoutLMv3. LayoutLMv3BASE adopts a 12-layer
Transformer encoder with 12-head self-attention, hidden size of
𝐷 = 768, and 3,072 intermediate size of feed-forward networks.
LayoutLMv3LARGE adopts a 24-layer Transformer encoder with
16-head self-attention, hidden size of 𝐷 = 1, 024, and 4,096 intermediate size of feed-forward networks. To pre-process the text input,
we tokenize the text sequence with Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) [46]
with a maximum sequence length 𝐿 = 512. We add a [CLS] and
a [SEP] token at the beginning and end of each text sequence.
When the length of the text sequence is shorter than 𝐿, we append
[PAD] tokens to it. The bounding box coordinates of these special tokens are all zeros. The parameters for image embedding are
𝐶 × 𝐻 ×𝑊 = 3 × 224 × 224, 𝑃 = 16, 𝑀 = 196.
We adopt distributed and mixed-precision training to reduce
memory costs and speed up training procedures. We also use a
gradient accumulation mechanism to split the batch of samples into
several mini-batches to overcome memory constraints for large
batch sizes. We further use a gradient checkpointing technique for
document layout analysis to reduce memory costs. To stabilize training, we follow CogView [10] to change the computation of attention to softmax 
Q𝑇 K
√
𝑑

= softmax   Q𝑇
𝛼
√
𝑑
K − max 
Q𝑇
𝛼
√
𝑑
K
  × 𝛼

,
where 𝛼 is 32.
3.2 Pre-training LayoutLMv3
To learn a universal representation for various document tasks,
we pre-train LayoutLMv3 on a large IIT-CDIP dataset. The IITCDIP Test Collection 1.0 is a large-scale scanned document image dataset, which contains about 11 million document images
and can split into 42 million pages [26]. We only use 11 million
of them to train LayoutLMv3. We do not do image augmentation
following LayoutLM models [54, 56]. For the multimodal Transformer encoder along with the text embedding layer, LayoutLMv3
is initialized from the pre-trained weights of RoBERTa [36]. Our
image tokenizer is initialized from a pre-trained image tokenizer
in DiT, a self-supervised pre-trained document image Transformer
model [30]. The vocabulary size of image tokens is 8,192. We randomly initialized the rest model parameters. We pre-train LayoutLMv3 using Adam optimizer [23] with a batch size of 2,048 for
500,000 steps. We use a weight decay of 1𝑒 − 2, and (𝛽1, 𝛽2) = (0.9,
0.98). For the LayoutLMv3BASE model, we use a learning rate of
1𝑒 −4, and we linearly warm up the learning rate over the first 4.8%
steps. For LayoutLMv3LARGE, the learning rate and warm-up ratio
are 5𝑒 − 5 and 10%, respectively.
3.3 Fine-tuning on Multimodal Tasks
We compare LayoutLMv3 with typical self-supervised pre-training
approaches and categorize them by their pre-training modalities.
• [T] text modality: BERT [9] and RoBERTa [36] are typical
pre-trained language models which only use text information
with Transformer architecture. We use FUNSD and RVLCDIP results of the RoBERTa from LayoutLM [54] and results
of BERT from LayoutLMv2 [56]. We reproduce and report
the CORD and DocVQA results of the RoBERTa.
• [T+L] text and layout modalities: LayoutLM incorporates
layout information by adding word-level spatial embeddings
to embeddings of BERT [54]. StructuralLM leverages segmentlevel layout information [28]. BROS encodes relative layout
Table 1: Comparison with existing published models on the CORD [39], FUNSD [20], RVL-CDIP [16], and DocVQA [38] datasets.
“T/L/I” denotes “text/layout/image” modality. “R/G/P” denotes “region/grid/patch” image embedding. We multiply all values
by a hundred for better readability. †
In the UDoc paper [14], the CORD splits are 626/247 receipts for training/test instead of
the official 800/100 training/test receipts adopted by other works. Thus the score†
is not directly comparable to other scores.
Models denoted with ‡ use more data to train DocVQA and are expected to score higher. For example, TILT introduces one
more supervised training stage on more QA datasets [40]. StructuralLM additionally uses the validation set in training [28].
Model Parameters Modality Image Embedding FUNSD CORD RVL-CDIP DocVQA
F1↑ F1↑ Accuracy↑ ANLS↑
BERTBASE [9] 110M T None 60.26 89.68 89.81 63.72
RoBERTaBASE [36] 125M T None 66.48 93.54 90.06 66.42
BROSBASE [17] 110M T+L None 83.05 95.73 - -
LiLTBASE [50] - T+L None 88.41 96.07 95.68* -
LayoutLMBASE [54] 160M T+L+I (R) ResNet-101 (fine-tune) 79.27 - 94.42 -
SelfDoc [31] - T+L+I (R) ResNeXt-101 83.36 - 92.81 -
UDoc [14] 272M T+L+I (R) ResNet-50 87.93 98.94†
95.05 -
TILTBASE [40] 230M T+L+I (R) U-Net - 95.11 95.25 83.92‡
XYLayoutLMBASE [15] - T+L+I (G) ResNeXt-101 83.35 - - -
LayoutLMv2BASE [56] 200M T+L+I (G) ResNeXt101-FPN 82.76 94.95 95.25 78.08
DocFormerBASE [2] 183M T+L+I (G) ResNet-50 83.34 96.33 96.17 -
LayoutLMv3BASE (Ours) 133M T+L+I (P) Linear 90.29 96.56 95.44 78.76
BERTLARGE [9] 340M T None 65.63 90.25 89.92 67.45
RoBERTaLARGE [36] 355M T None 70.72 93.80 90.11 69.52
LayoutLMLARGE [54] 343M T+L None 77.89 - 91.90 -
BROSLARGE [17] 340M T+L None 84.52 97.40 - -
StructuralLMLARGE [28] 355M T+L None 85.14 - 96.08 83.94‡
FormNet [25] 217M T+L None 84.69 - - -
FormNet [25] 345M T+L None - 97.28 - -
TILTLARGE [40] 780M T+L+I (R) U-Net - 96.33 95.52 87.05‡
LayoutLMv2LARGE [56] 426M T+L+I (G) ResNeXt101-FPN 84.20 96.01 95.64 83.48
DocFormerLARGE [2] 536M T+L+I (G) ResNet-50 84.55 96.99 95.50 -
LayoutLMv3LARGE (Ours) 368M T+L+I (P) Linear 92.08 97.46 95.93 83.37
* LiLT uses image features with ResNeXt101-FPN backbone in fine-tuning RVL-CDIP.
positions [17]. LILT fine-tunes on different languages with
pre-trained textual models [50]. FormNet leverages the spatial relationship between tokens in a form [25].
• [T+L+I (R)] text, layout and image modalities with Faster
R-CNN region features: This line of works extract image region features from RoI heads in the Faster R-CNN
model [44]. Among them, LayoutLM [54] and TILT [40] use
OCR words’ bounding box to serve as region proposals and
add the region features to corresponding text embeddings.
SelfDoc [31] and UDoc [14] use document object proposals
and concatenate region features with text embeddings.
• [T+L+I (G)] text, layout and image modalities with CNN
grid features: LayoutLMv2 [56] and DocFormer [2] extract
image grid features with a CNN backbone without object
detection. XYLayoutLM [15] adopts the architecture of LayoutLMv2 and improves layout representation.
• [T+L+I (P)] text, layout, and image modalities with linear patch features: LayoutLMv3 replaces CNN backbones
with simple linear embedding to encode image patches.
We fine-tune LayoutLMv3 on multimodal tasks on publicly available benchmarks. Results are shown in Table 1.
Task I: Form and Receipt Understanding. Form and receipt
understanding tasks require extracting and structuring forms and
receipts’ textual content. The tasks are a sequence labeling problem
aiming to tag each word with a label. We predict the label of the
last hidden state of each text token with a linear layer and an MLP
classifier for form and receipt understanding tasks, respectively.
We conduct experiments on the FUNSD dataset and the CORD
dataset. The FUNSD [20] is a noisy scanned form understanding dataset sampled from the RVL-CDIP dataset [16]. The FUNSD
dataset contains 199 documents with comprehensive annotations
for 9,707 semantic entities. We focus on the semantic entity labeling
task on the FUNSD dataset to assign each semantic entity a label
among “question”, “answer”, “header” or “other”. The training and
test splits contain 149 and 50 samples, respectively. CORD [39] is a
receipt key information extraction dataset with 30 semantic labels
defined under 4 categories. It contains 1,000 receipts of 800 training,
100 validation, and 100 test examples. We use officially-provided
images and OCR annotations. We fine-tune LayoutLMv3 for 1,000
Table 2: Document layout analysis mAP @ IOU [0.50:0.95] on PubLayNet validation set. All models use only information from
the vision modality. LayoutLMv3 outperforms the compared ResNets [14, 59] and vision Transformer [30] backbones.
Model Framework Backbone Text Title List Table Figure Overall
PubLayNet[59] Mask R-CNN ResNet-101 91.6 84.0 88.6 96.0 94.9 91.0
DiTBASE [30] Mask R-CNN Transformer 93.4 87.1 92.9 97.3 96.7 93.5
UDoc [14] Faster R-CNN ResNet-50 93.9 88.5 93.7 97.3 96.4 93.9
DiTBASE [30] Cascade R-CNN Transformer 94.4 88.9 94.8 97.6 96.9 94.5
LayoutLMv3BASE (Ours) Cascade R-CNN Transformer 94.5 90.6 95.5 97.9 97.0 95.1
steps with a learning rate of 1𝑒 −5 and a batch size of 16 for FUNSD,
and 5𝑒 − 5 and 64 for CORD.
We report F1 scores for this task. For the large model size, the
LayoutLMv3 achieves an F1 score of 92.08 on the FUNSD dataset,
which significantly outperforms the SOTA result of 85.14 provided
by StructuralLM [28]. Note that LayoutLMv3 and StructuralLM use
segment-level layout positions, while the other works use wordlevel layout positions. Using segment-level positions may benefit
the semantic entity labeling task on FUNSD [28], so the two types
of work are not directly comparable. The LayoutLMv3 also achieves
SOTA F1 scores on the CORD dataset for both base and large model
sizes. The results show that LayoutLMv3 can significantly benefit
the text-centric form and receipt understanding tasks.
Task II: Document Image Classification. The document image
classification task aims to predict the category of document images.
We feed the output hidden state of the special classification token
([CLS]) into an MLP classifier to predict the class labels.
We conduct experiments on the RVL-CDIP dataset. It is a subset
of the IIT-CDIP collection labeled with 16 categories [16]. RVL-CDIP
dataset contains 400,000 document images, among them 320,000
are training images, 40,000 are validation images, and 40,000 are
test images. We extract text and layout information using Microsoft
Read API. We fine-tune LayoutLMv3 for 20,000 steps with a batch
size of 64 and a learning rate of 2𝑒 − 5.
The evaluation metric is the overall classification accuracy. LayoutLMv3 achieves better or comparable results with a much smaller
model size than previous works. For example, compared to LayoutLMv2, LayoutLMv3 achieves an absolute improvement of 0.19%
and 0.29% in the base model and large model size, respectively, with
a much simpler image embedding (i.e., Linear vs. ResNeXt101-FPN).
The results show that our simple image embeddings can achieve
desirable results on image-centric tasks.
Task III: Document Visual Question Answering. Document
visual question answering requires a model to take a document
image and a question as input and output an answer [38]. We
formalize this task as an extractive QA problem, where the model
predicts start and end positions by classifying the last hidden state
of each text token with a binary classifier.
We conduct experiments on the DocVQA dataset, a standard
dataset for visual question answering on document images [38]. The
official partition of the DocVQA dataset consists of 10,194/1,286/1,287
images and 39,463/5,349/5,188 questions for training/validation/test
set, respectively. We train our model on the training set, evaluate the model on the test set, and report results by submitting
them to the official evaluation website. We use Microsoft Read API
to extract text and bounding boxes from images and use heuristics to find given answers in the extracted text as in LayoutLMv2.
We fine-tune LayoutLMv3BASE for 100,000 steps with a batch size
of 128, a learning rate of 3𝑒 − 5, and a warmup ratio of 0.048.
For LayoutLMv3LARGE, the step size, batch size, learning rate and
warmup ratio are 200,000, 32, 1𝑒 − 5, and 0.1, respectively.
We report the commonly-used edit distance-based metric ANLS
(also known as Average Normalized Levenshtein Similarity). The
LayoutLMv3BASE improves the ANLS score of LayoutLMv2BASE
from 78.08 to 78.76, with much simpler image embedding (i.e., from
ResNeXt101-FPN to Linear embedding). The LayoutLMv3LARGE
further gains an absolute ANLS score of 4.61 over LayoutLMv3BASE.
The results show that LayoutLMv3 is effective for the document
visual question answering task.
3.4 Fine-tuning on a Vision Task
To demonstrate the generality of LayoutLMv3 from the multimodal
domain to the visual domain, we transfer LayoutLMv3 to a document layout analysis task. This task is about detecting the layouts
of unstructured digital documents by providing bounding boxes and
categories such as tables, figures, texts, etc. This task helps parse the
documents into a machine-readable format for downstream applications. We model this task as an object detection problem without
text embedding, which is effective in existing works [14, 30, 59].
We integrate the LayoutLMv3 as feature backbone in the Cascade
R-CNN detector [4] with FPN [34] implemented using the Detectron2 [53]. We adopt the standard practice to extract single-scale
features from different Transformer layers, such as layers 4, 6, 8, and
12 of the LayoutLMv3 base model. We use resolution-modifying
modules to convert the single-scale features into the multiscale FPN
features [1, 30, 33].
We conduct experiments on PubLayNet dataset [59]. The dataset
contains research paper images annotated with bounding boxes and
polygonal segmentation across five document layout categories:
text, title, list, figure, and table. The official splits contain 335,703
training images, 11,245 validation images, and 11,405 test images.
We train our model on the training split and evaluate our model
on the validation split following standard practice [14, 30, 59]. We
train our model for 60,000 steps using the AdamW optimizer with
1,000 warm-up steps and a weight decay of 0.05 following DiT [30].
Since LayoutLMv3 is pre-trained with inputs from both vision and
language modalities, we use a larger batch size of 32 and a lower
learning rate of 2𝑒 − 4 empirically. We do not use flipping or cropping augmentation strategy in the fine-tuning stage to be consistent
Table 3: Ablation study on image embeddings and pre-training objectives on typical text-centric tasks (form and receipt understanding on FUNSD and CORD) and image-centric tasks (document image classification on RVL-CDIP and document layout
analysis on PubLayNet). All models were trained at BASE size on 1 million data for 150,000 steps with learning rate 3𝑒 − 4.
#
Image Parameters Pre-training FUNSD CORD RVL-CDIP PubLayNet
Embed Objective(s) F1↑ F1↑ Accuracy↑ MAP↑
1 None 125M MLM 88.64 96.27 95.33 Not Applicable
2 Linear 126M MLM 89.39 96.11 95.00 Loss Divergence
3 Linear 132M MLM+MIM 89.19 96.30 95.42 94.38
4 Linear 133M MLM+MIM+WPA 89.78 96.49 95.53 94.43
Figure 4: Loss convergence curves of fine-tuning the ablated
models of LayoutLMv3 on PubLayNet dataset. The loss of
model #2 did not converge. By incorporating the MIM objective, the loss converges normally. TheWPA objective further
decreases the loss. Best viewed in color.
with our pre-training stage. We do not use relative positions in selfattention networks as DiT.
We measure the performance using the mean average precision (MAP) @ intersection over union (IOU) [0.50:0.95] of bounding boxes and report results in Table 2. We compare with the
ResNets [14, 59] and the concurrent vision Transformer [30] backbones. LayoutLMv3 outperforms the other models in all metrics,
achieving an overall mAP score of 95.1. LayoutLMv3 achieves a
high gain in the “Title” category. Since titles are typically much
smaller than other categories and can be identified by their textual content, we attribute this improvement to our incorporation
of language modality in pre-training LayoutLMv3. These results
demonstrate the generality and superiority of LayoutLMv3.
3.5 Ablation Study
In Table 3 we study the effect of our image embeddings and pretraining objectives. We first build a baseline model #1 that uses text
and layout information, pre-trained with MLM objective. Then we
use linearly projected image patches as the image embedding of the
baseline model, denoted as model #2. We further pre-train model
#2 with MIM and WPA objectives step by step and denote the new
models as #3 and #4, respectively.
In Figure 4, we visualize losses of models #2, #3, and #4 when
fine-tuned on the PubLayNet dataset with a batch size of 16 and a
learning rate of 2𝑒 − 4. We have tried to train the model #2 with
learning rates of {1𝑒 − 4, 2𝑒 − 4, 4𝑒 − 4} combined with batch sizes
of {16, 32}, but the loss of model #2 did not converge and the mAP
score on PubLayNet is near zero.
Effect of Linear Image Embedding. We observe that model #1
without image embedding has achieved good results on some tasks.
This suggests that language modality, including text and layout
information, plays a vital role in document understanding. However, the results are still unsatisfactory. Moreover, model #1 cannot
conduct some image-centric document analysis tasks without vision modality. For example, the vision modality is critical for the
document layout analysis task on PubLayNet because bounding
boxes are tightly integrated with images. Our simple design of
linear image embedding combined with appropriate pre-training
objectives can consistently improve not only image-centric tasks,
but also some text-centric tasks further.
Effect of MIM pre-training objective. Simply concatenating linear image embedding with text embedding as input to model #2
deteriorates performance on CORD and RVL-CDIP, while the loss
on PubLayNet diverges. We speculate that the model failed to learn
meaningful visual representation on the linear patch embeddings
without any pre-training objective associated with image modality.
The MIM objective mitigates this problem by preserving the image
information until the last layer of the model by randomly masking
out a portion of input image patches and reconstructing them in
the output [22]. Comparing the results of model #3 and model #2,
the MIM objective benefits CORD and RVL-CDIP. As simply using
linear image embedding has improved FUNSD, MIM does not further contribute to FUNSD. By incorporating the MIM objective in
training, the loss converges when fine-tuning PubLayNet as shown
in Figure 4, and we obtain a desirable mAP score. The results indicate that MIM can help regularize the training. Thus MIM is critical
for vision tasks like document layout analysis on PubLayNet.
Effect of WPA pre-training objective. By comparing models #3
and #4 in Table 3, we observe that the WPA objective consistently
improves all tasks. Moreover, the WPA objective decreases the loss
of the vision task on PubLayNet in Figure 4. These results confirm
the effectiveness of WPA not only in cross-modal representation
learning, but also in image representation learning.
Parameter Comparisons. The table shows that incorporating
image embedding for a 16×16 patch projection (#1 → #2) introduces
only 0.6M parameters. The parameters are negligible compared to
the parameters of CNN backbones (e.g., 44M for ResNet-101). A
MIM head and a WPA head introduce 6.9M and 0.6M parameters
in the pre-training stage. The parameter overhead introduced by
image embedding is marginal compared to the MLM head, which
has 39.2M parameters for a text vocabulary size of 50,265. We did
not take count of the image tokenizer when calculating parameters
as the tokenizer is a standalone module for generating the labels of
MIM but is not integrated into the Transformer backbone.
4 RELATED WORK
Multimodal self-supervised pre-training technique has made a
rapid progress in document intelligence due to its successful applications of document layout and image representation learning [2, 13–
15, 17, 25, 28, 31, 32, 40, 41, 50, 52, 54–56]. LayoutLM and following
works joint layout representation learning by encoding spatial coordinates of text [17, 25, 28, 54]. Various works then joint image
representation learning by combining CNNs with Transformer [49]
self-attention networks. These works either extract CNN grid features [2, 56] or rely on an object detector to extract region features [14, 31, 40, 54], which accounts for heavy computation bottleneck or requires region supervision. In the field of natural images
vision-and-language pre-training (VLP), research works have seen
a shift from region features [5, 47, 48] to grid features [19] to lift
limitations of pre-defined object classes and region supervision. Inspired by vision Transformer (ViT) [11], there have also been recent
efforts in VLP without CNNs to overcome the weakness of CNN.
Still, most rely on separate self-attention networks to learn visual
features; thus, their computational cost is not reduced [12, 29, 57].
An exception is ViLT, which learns visual features with a lightweight linear layer and significantly cuts down the model size and
running time [22]. Inspired by ViLT, our LayoutLMv3 is the first
multimodal model in Document AI that utilizes image embeddings
without CNNs.
Reconstructive pre-training objectives revolutionized representation learning. In NLP research, BERT firstly proposed “masked
language modeling” (MLM) to learn bidirectional representations
and advanced the state of the arts on broad language understanding
tasks [9]. In the field of CV, Masked Image Modeling (MIM) aims
to learn rich visual representations via predicting masked content
conditioning in visible context. For example, ViT reconstructs the
mean color of masked patches, which leads to performance gains
in ImageNet classification [11]. BEiT reconstructs visual tokens
learned by a discrete VAE, achieving competitive results in image
classification and semantic segmentation [3]. DiT extends BEiT to
document images to document layout analysis [30].
Inspired by MLM and MIM, researchers in the field of visionand-language have explored reconstructive objectives for multimodal representation learning. Whereas most well-performing
vision-and-language pre-training (VLP) models use the MLM proposed by BERT on text modality, they differ in their pre-training objectives for the image modality. There are three variants of MIM corresponding to different image embeddings: masked region modeling
(MRM), masked grid modeling (MGM), and masked patch modeling
(MPM). MRM has been proven to be effective in regressing original
region features [5, 31, 48] or classifying object labels [5, 37, 48] for
masked regions. MGM has also been explored in the SOHO, whose
objective is to predict the mapping index in a visual dictionary for
masked grid features [19]. For patch-level image embedding, Visual
Parsing [57] proposed to mask visual tokens according to the attention weights in their self-attention image encoder, which does not
apply to simple linear image encoders. ViLT [22] and METER [12]
attempt to leverage MPM similar to ViT [11] and BEiT [3], which respectively reconstruct the mean color and discrete tokens in visual
vocabularies for image patches, but resulted in degraded performance on downstream tasks. Our LayoutLMv3 firstly demonstrates
the effectiveness of MIM for linear patch image embedding.
Various cross-modal objectives are further developed for vision and language (VL) alignment learning in multimodal models.
Image-text matching is widely used to learn a coarse-grained VL
alignment [2, 5, 19, 22, 56]. To learn a fine-grained VL alignment,
UNITER proposes a word-region alignment objective based on optimal transports, which calculates the minimum cost of transporting
the contextualized image embeddings to word embeddings [5].
ViLT extends this objective to patch-level image embeddings [22].
Unlike natural images, document images imply an explicit finegrained alignment relationship between text words and image areas. Using this relationship, UDoc uses contrastive learning and
similarity distillation to align the image and text belonging to the
same area [14]. LayoutLMv2 covers some text lines in raw images
and predicts whether each text token is covered [56]. In contrast,
we naturally utilize the masking operations in MIM to construct
aligned/unaligned pairs in an effective and unified way.
5 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper, we present LayoutLMv3 to pre-train the multimodal
Transformer for Document AI, which redesigns the model architecture and pre-training objectives for LayoutLM. Distinguishing
from the existing multimodal model in Document AI, LayoutLMv3
does not rely on a pre-trained CNN or Faster R-CNN backbone to
extract visual features, significantly saving parameters and eliminating region annotations. We use unified text and image masking
pre-training objectives: masked language modeling, masked image
modeling, and word-patch alignment, to learn multimodal representations. Extensive experimental results have demonstrated the
generality and superiority of LayoutLMv3 for both text-centric and
image-centric Document AI tasks with the simple architecture and
unified objectives. In future research, we will investigate scaling up
pre-trained models so that the models can leverage more training
data to drive SOTA results further. In addition, we will explore fewshot and zero-shot learning capabilities to facilitate more real-world
business scenarios in the Document AI industry.
6 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We are grateful to Yiheng Xu for fruitful discussions and inspiration.
This work was supported by the NSFC (U1811461) and the Program
for Guangdong Introducing Innovative and Entrepreneurial Teams
under Grant NO.2016ZT06D211.
Table 4: Visual information extraction in Chinese F1 score on the EPHOIE test set.
Model Subject Test Time Name School #Examination #Seat Class #Student Grade Score Mean
BiLSTM+CRF [24] 98.51 100.0 98.87 98.80 75.86 72.73 94.04 84.44 98.18 69.57 89.10
GCN-based [35] 98.18 100.0 99.52 100.0 88.17 86.00 97.39 80.00 94.44 81.82 92.55
GraphIE [42] 94.00 100.0 95.84 97.06 82.19 84.44 93.07 85.33 94.44 76.19 90.26
TRIE [58] 98.79 100.0 99.46 99.64 88.64 85.92 97.94 84.32 97.02 80.39 93.21
VIES [51] 99.39 100.0 99.67 99.28 91.81 88.73 99.29 89.47 98.35 86.27 95.23
StrucTexT [32] 99.25 100.0 99.47 99.83 97.98 95.43 98.29 97.33 99.25 93.73 97.95
LayoutLMv3-ChineseBASE (Ours) 98.99 100.0 99.77 99.20 100.0 100.0 98.82 99.78 98.31 97.27 99.21
A APPENDIX
A.1 LayoutLMv3 in Chinese
Pre-training LayoutLMv3 in Chinese. To demonstrate the effectiveness of LayoutLMv3 in not only English but also in the Chinese
language, we pre-train a LayoutLMv3-Chinese model in base size.
It is trained on 50 million document pages in Chinese. We collect
large-scale Chinese documents by downloading publicly available
digital-born documents and following the principles of Common
Crawl (https://commoncrawl.org/) to process these documents. For
the multimodal Transformer encoder along with the text embedding layer, LayoutLMv3-Chinese is initialized from the pre-trained
weights of XLM-R [7]. We randomly initialized the rest model parameters. Other training setting is the same as LayoutLMv3.
Fine-tuning on Visual Information Extraction. The visual information extraction (VIE) requires extracting key information from
document images. The task is a sequence labeling problem aiming
to tag each word with a pre-defined label. We predict the label of
the last hidden state of each text token with a linear layer.
We conduct experiments on the EPHOIE dataset. The EPHOIE [51]
is a visual information extraction dataset consisting of examination paper heads with diverse layouts and backgrounds. It contains
1,494 images with comprehensive annotations for 15,771 Chinese
text instances. We focus on a token-level entity labeling task on
the EPHOIE dataset to assign each character a label among ten
pre-defined categories. The training and test sets contain 1,183 and
311 images, respectively. We fine-tune LayoutLMv3-Chinese for
100 epochs. The batch size is 16, and the learning rate is 5𝑒 − 5 with
linear warmup over the first epoch.
We report F1 scores for this task and report results in Table 4. The
LayoutLMv3-Chinese shows superior performance on most metrics
and achieves a SOTA mean F1 score of 99.21%. The results show
that LayoutLMv3 significantly benefits the VIE task in Chinese.
REFERENCES
[1] Alaaeldin Ali, Hugo Touvron, Mathilde Caron, Piotr Bojanowski, Matthijs Douze,
Armand Joulin, Ivan Laptev, Natalia Neverova, Gabriel Synnaeve, Jakob Verbeek,
et al. 2021. Xcit: Cross-covariance image transformers. In NeurIPS.
[2] Srikar Appalaraju, Bhavan Jasani, Bhargava Urala Kota, Yusheng Xie, and R. Manmatha. 2021. DocFormer: End-to-End Transformer for Document Understanding.
In ICCV.
[3] Hangbo Bao, Li Dong, Songhao Piao, and Furu Wei. 2022. BEiT: BERT PreTraining of Image Transformers. In ICLR.
[4] Zhaowei Cai and Nuno Vasconcelos. 2018. Cascade r-cnn: Delving into high
quality object detection. In CVPR.
[5] Yen-Chun Chen, Linjie Li, Licheng Yu, Ahmed El Kholy, Faisal Ahmed, Zhe Gan,
Yu Cheng, and Jingjing Liu. 2020. Uniter: Universal image-text representation
learning. In ECCV.
[6] Jaemin Cho, Jiasen Lu, Dustin Schwenk, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Aniruddha
Kembhavi. 2020. X-LXMERT: Paint, Caption and Answer Questions with MultiModal Transformers. In EMNLP.
[7] Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal, Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco Guzmán, Édouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettlemoyer,
and Veselin Stoyanov. 2020. Unsupervised Cross-lingual Representation Learning
at Scale. In ACL.
[8] Lei Cui, Yiheng Xu, Tengchao Lv, and Furu Wei. 2021. Document AI: Benchmarks,
Models and Applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.08609 (2021).
[9] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding. In
NAACL.
[10] Ming Ding, Zhuoyi Yang, Wenyi Hong, Wendi Zheng, Chang Zhou, Da Yin,
Junyang Lin, Xu Zou, Zhou Shao, Hongxia Yang, et al. 2021. Cogview: Mastering
text-to-image generation via transformers. In NeurIPS.
[11] Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg
Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. 2021. An Image is
Worth 16x16 Words: Transformers for Image Recognition at Scale. In ICLR.
[12] Zi-Yi Dou, Yichong Xu, Zhe Gan, Jianfeng Wang, Shuohang Wang, Lijuan Wang,
Chenguang Zhu, Zicheng Liu, Michael Zeng, et al. 2021. An Empirical Study
of Training End-to-End Vision-and-Language Transformers. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2111.02387 (2021).
[13] Łukasz Garncarek, Rafał Powalski, Tomasz Stanisławek, Bartosz Topolski, Piotr
Halama, Michał Turski, and Filip Graliński. 2021. LAMBERT: Layout-Aware
Language Modeling for Information Extraction. In ICDAR.
[14] Jiuxiang Gu, Jason Kuen, Vlad Morariu, Handong Zhao, Rajiv Jain, Nikolaos
Barmpalios, Ani Nenkova, and Tong Sun. 2021. UniDoc: Unified Pretraining
Framework for Document Understanding. In NeurIPS.
[15] Zhangxuan Gu, Changhua Meng, Ke Wang, Jun Lan, Weiqiang Wang, Ming
Gu, and Liqing Zhang. 2022. XYLayoutLM: Towards Layout-Aware Multimodal
Networks For Visually-Rich Document Understanding. In CVPR.
[16] Adam W Harley, Alex Ufkes, and Konstantinos G Derpanis. 2015. Evaluation of
Deep Convolutional Nets for Document Image Classification and Retrieval. In
ICDAR.
[17] Teakgyu Hong, DongHyun Kim, Mingi Ji, Wonseok Hwang, Daehyun Nam, and
Sungrae Park. 2022. BROS: A Pre-Trained Language Model Focusing on Text and
Layout for Better Key Information Extraction from Documents. In AAAI.
[18] Yupan Huang, Hongwei Xue, Bei Liu, and Yutong Lu. 2021. Unifying multimodal
transformer for bi-directional image and text generation. In ACM Multimedia.
[19] Zhicheng Huang, Zhaoyang Zeng, Yupan Huang, Bei Liu, Dongmei Fu, and
Jianlong Fu. 2021. Seeing out of the box: End-to-end pre-training for visionlanguage representation learning. In CVPR.
[20] Guillaume Jaume, Hazim Kemal Ekenel, and Jean-Philippe Thiran. 2019. Funsd:
A dataset for form understanding in noisy scanned documents. In ICDARW.
[21] Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Yinhan Liu, Daniel S Weld, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Omer Levy. 2020. Spanbert: Improving pre-training by representing and predicting spans. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics 8 (2020),
64–77.
[22] Wonjae Kim, Bokyung Son, and Ildoo Kim. 2021. Vilt: Vision-and-language
transformer without convolution or region supervision. In ICML.
[23] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980 (2014).
[24] Guillaume Lample, Miguel Ballesteros, Sandeep Subramanian, Kazuya Kawakami,
and Chris Dyer. 2016. Neural Architectures for Named Entity Recognition. In
NAACL HLT.
[25] Chen-Yu Lee, Chun-Liang Li, Timothy Dozat, Vincent Perot, Guolong Su, Nan
Hua, Joshua Ainslie, Renshen Wang, Yasuhisa Fujii, and Tomas Pfister. 2022.
FormNet: Structural Encoding beyond Sequential Modeling in Form Document
Information Extraction. In ACL.
[26] D. Lewis, G. Agam, S. Argamon, O. Frieder, D. Grossman, and J. Heard. 2006.
Building a Test Collection for Complex Document Information Processing. In
SIGIR.
[27] Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman
Mohamed, Omer Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020. BART:
Denoising Sequence-to-Sequence Pre-training for Natural Language Generation,
Translation, and Comprehension. In ACL.
[28] Chenliang Li, Bin Bi, Ming Yan, Wei Wang, Songfang Huang, Fei Huang, and Luo
Si. 2021. StructuralLM: Structural Pre-training for Form Understanding. In ACL.
[29] Junnan Li, Ramprasaath Selvaraju, Akhilesh Gotmare, Shafiq Joty, Caiming Xiong,
and Steven Chu Hong Hoi. 2021. Align before fuse: Vision and language representation learning with momentum distillation. In NeurIPS.
[30] Junlong Li, Yiheng Xu, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Cha Zhang, and Furu Wei. 2022. DiT:
Self-supervised Pre-training for Document Image Transformer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.02378 (2022).
[31] Peizhao Li, Jiuxiang Gu, Jason Kuen, Vlad I Morariu, Handong Zhao, Rajiv Jain,
Varun Manjunatha, and Hongfu Liu. 2021. SelfDoc: Self-Supervised Document
Representation Learning. In CVPR.
[32] Yulin Li, Yuxi Qian, Yuechen Yu, Xiameng Qin, Chengquan Zhang, Yan Liu, Kun
Yao, Junyu Han, Jingtuo Liu, and Errui Ding. 2021. StrucTexT: Structured Text
Understanding with Multi-Modal Transformers. In ACM Multimedia.
[33] Yanghao Li, Saining Xie, Xinlei Chen, Piotr Dollar, Kaiming He, and Ross Girshick.
2021. Benchmarking detection transfer learning with vision transformers. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2111.11429 (2021).
[34] Tsung-Yi Lin, Piotr Dollár, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He, Bharath Hariharan, and
Serge Belongie. 2017. Feature pyramid networks for object detection. In CVPR.
[35] Xiaojing Liu, Feiyu Gao, Qiong Zhang, and Huasha Zhao. 2019. Graph Convolution for Multimodal Information Extraction from Visually Rich Documents. In
NAACL HLT.
[36] Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Roberta: A
robustly optimized bert pretraining approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692
(2019).
[37] Jiasen Lu, Dhruv Batra, Devi Parikh, and Stefan Lee. 2019. Vilbert: Pretraining
task-agnostic visiolinguistic representations for vision-and-language tasks. In
NeurIPS.
[38] Minesh Mathew, Dimosthenis Karatzas, and CV Jawahar. 2021. Docvqa: A dataset
for vqa on document images. In WACV.
[39] Seunghyun Park, Seung Shin, Bado Lee, Junyeop Lee, Jaeheung Surh, Minjoon
Seo, and Hwalsuk Lee. 2019. CORD: A Consolidated Receipt Dataset for PostOCR Parsing. In Document Intelligence Workshop at Neural Information Processing
Systems.
[40] Rafal Powalski, Łukasz Borchmann, Dawid Jurkiewicz, Tomasz Dwojak, Michal
Pietruszka, and Gabriela Pałka. 2021. Going Full-TILT Boogie on Document
Understanding with Text-Image-Layout Transformer. In ICDAR.
[41] Subhojeet Pramanik, Shashank Mujumdar, and Hima Patel. 2020. Towards a
multi-modal, multi-task learning based pre-training framework for document
representation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.14457 (2020).
[42] Yujie Qian. 2019. A graph-based framework for information extraction. Ph. D.
Dissertation. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
[43] Aditya Ramesh, Mikhail Pavlov, Gabriel Goh, Scott Gray, Chelsea Voss, Alec
Radford, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Zero-shot text-to-image generation.
In ICML.
[44] Shaoqing Ren, Kaiming He, Ross B. Girshick, and Jian Sun. 2015. Faster R-CNN:
Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks. TPAMI 39,
1137–1149.
[45] Tim Salimans, Andrej Karpathy, Xi Chen, and Diederik P. Kingma. 2017. PixelCNN++: Improving the PixelCNN with Discretized Logistic Mixture Likelihood
and Other Modifications. In ICLR.
[46] Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. 2016. Neural Machine
Translation of Rare Words with Subword Units. In ACL.
[47] Weijie Su, Xizhou Zhu, Yue Cao, Bin Li, Lewei Lu, Furu Wei, and Jifeng Dai. 2019.
VL-BERT: Pre-training of Generic Visual-Linguistic Representations. In ICLR.
[48] Hao Tan and Mohit Bansal. 2019. LXMERT: Learning Cross-Modality Encoder
Representations from Transformers. In EMNLP.
[49] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all
you need. In NeurIPS.
[50] Jiapeng Wang, Lianwen Jin, and Kai Ding. 2022. LiLT: A Simple yet Effective
Language-Independent Layout Transformer for Structured Document Understanding. In ACL.
[51] Jiapeng Wang, Chongyu Liu, Lianwen Jin, Guozhi Tang, Jiaxin Zhang, Shuaitao
Zhang, Qianying Wang, Yaqiang Wu, and Mingxiang Cai. 2021. Towards robust
visual information extraction in real world: new dataset and novel solution. In
AAAI.
[52] Te-Lin Wu, Cheng Li, Mingyang Zhang, Tao Chen, Spurthi Amba Hombaiah, and
Michael Bendersky. 2021. LAMPRET: Layout-Aware Multimodal PreTraining for
Document Understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08405 (2021).
[53] Yuxin Wu, Alexander Kirillov, Francisco Massa, Wan-Yen Lo, and Ross Girshick.
2019. Detectron2. https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.
[54] Yiheng Xu, Minghao Li, Lei Cui, Shaohan Huang, Furu Wei, and Ming Zhou. 2020.
Layoutlm: Pre-training of text and layout for document image understanding. In
KDD.
[55] Yiheng Xu, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Guoxin Wang, Yijuan Lu, Dinei Florencio, Cha
Zhang, and Furu Wei. 2021. LayoutXLM: Multimodal Pre-training for Multilingual
Visually-rich Document Understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08836 (2021).
[56] Yang Xu, Yiheng Xu, Tengchao Lv, Lei Cui, Furu Wei, Guoxin Wang, Yijuan Lu,
Dinei Florencio, Cha Zhang, Wanxiang Che, Min Zhang, and Lidong Zhou. 2021.
LayoutLMv2: Multi-modal Pre-training for Visually-rich Document Understanding. In ACL.
[57] Hongwei Xue, Yupan Huang, Bei Liu, Houwen Peng, Jianlong Fu, Houqiang Li,
and Jiebo Luo. 2021. Probing Inter-modality: Visual Parsing with Self-Attention
for Vision-and-Language Pre-training. In NeurIPS.
[58] Peng Zhang, Yunlu Xu, Zhanzhan Cheng, Shiliang Pu, Jing Lu, Liang Qiao, Yi
Niu, and Fei Wu. 2020. TRIE: end-to-end text reading and information extraction
for document understanding. In ACM Multimedia.
[59] Xu Zhong, Jianbin Tang, and Antonio Jimeno Yepes. 2019. PubLayNet: largest
dataset ever for document layout analysis. In ICDAR.
SPLADE: Sparse Lexical and Expansion Model
for First Stage Ranking
Thibault Formal
Naver Labs Europe
Meylan, France
Sorbonne Université, LIP6
Paris, France
thibault.formal@naverlabs.com
Benjamin Piwowarski
Sorbonne Université, CNRS, LIP6
Paris, France
benjamin.piwowarski@lip6.fr
Stéphane Clinchant
Naver Labs Europe
Meylan, France
stephane.clinchant@naverlabs.com
ABSTRACT
In neural Information Retrieval, ongoing research is directed towards improving the first retriever in ranking pipelines. Learning
dense embeddings to conduct retrieval using efficient approximate
nearest neighbors methods has proven to work well. Meanwhile,
there has been a growing interest in learning sparse representations
for documents and queries, that could inherit from the desirable
properties of bag-of-words models such as the exact matching of
terms and the efficiency of inverted indexes. In this work, we present
a new first-stage ranker based on explicit sparsity regularization
and a log-saturation effect on term weights, leading to highly sparse
representations and competitive results with respect to state-ofthe-art dense and sparse methods. Our approach is simple, trained
end-to-end in a single stage. We also explore the trade-off between
effectiveness and efficiency, by controlling the contribution of the
sparsity regularization.
KEYWORDS
neural networks, indexing, sparse representations, regularization
ACM Reference Format:
Thibault Formal, Benjamin Piwowarski, and Stéphane Clinchant. 2021.
SPLADE: Sparse Lexical and Expansion Model for First Stage Ranking.
In Proceedings of ACM Conference (Conference’17). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 5 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
1 INTRODUCTION
The release of large pre-trained language models like BERT [7]
has shaken-up Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval. These models have shown a strong ability to adapt to various
tasks by simple fine-tuning. At the beginning of 2019, Nogueira
and Cho [17] achieved state-of-the-art results – by a large margin
– on the MS MARCO passage re-ranking task, paving the way for
LM-based neural ranking models. Because of strict efficiency requirements, these models have initially been used as re-rankers
in a two-stage ranking pipeline, where first-stage retrieval – or
candidate generation – is conducted with bag-of-words models (e.g.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
© 2021 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
BM25) that rely on inverted indexes. While BOW models remain
strong baselines [27], they suffer from the long standing vocabulary
mismatch problem, where relevant documents might not contain
terms that appear in the query. Thus, there have been attempts to
substitute standard BOW approaches by learned (neural) rankers.
Designing such models poses several challenges regarding efficiency and scalability: therefore there is a need for methods where
most of the computation can be done offline and online inference
is fast. Dense retrieval with approximate nearest neighbors search
has shown impressive results [8, 15, 26], but is still combined with
BOW models because of its inability to explicitly model term matching. Hence, there has recently been a growing interest in learning
sparse representations for queries and documents [1, 4, 19, 28, 29].
By doing so, models can inherit from the desirable properties of
BOW models like exact-match of (possibly latent) terms, efficiency
of inverted indexes and interpretability. Additionally, by modeling
implicit or explicit (latent, contextualized) expansion mechanisms –
similarly to standard expansion models in IR – these models can
reduce the vocabulary mismatch.
The contributions of this paper are threefold: (1) we build upon
SparTerm [1], and show that a mild tuning of hyperparameters
brings improvements that largely outperform the results reported
in the original paper; (2) we propose the SParse Lexical AnD Expansion (SPLADE) model, based on a logarithmic activation and
sparse regularization. SPLADE performs an efficient document expansion [1, 16], with competitive results with respect to complex
training pipelines for dense models like ANCE [26]; (3) finally, we
show how the sparsity regularization can be controlled to influence the trade-off between efficiency (in terms of the number of
floating-point operations) and effectiveness.
2 RELATED WORKS
Dense retrieval based on BERT Siamese models [22] has become
the standard approach for candidate generation in Question Answering and IR [8, 10, 12, 15, 25]. While the backbone of these models remains the same, recent works highlight the critical aspects
of the training strategy to obtain state-of-the-art results, ranging
from improved negative sampling [8, 25] to distillation [11, 15].
ColBERT [13] pushes things further: the postponed token-level
interactions allow to efficiently apply the model for first-stage retrieval, benefiting of the effectiveness of modeling fine-grained
interactions, at the cost of storing embeddings for each (sub)term
– raising concerns about the actual scalability of the approach for
large collections. To the best of our knowledge, very few studies
have discussed the impact of using approximate nearest neighbors
arXiv:2107.05720v1 [cs.IR] 12 Jul 2021
(ANN) search on IR metrics [2, 23]. Due to the moderate size of the
MS MARCO collection, results are usually reported with an exact,
brute-force search, therefore giving no indication on the effective
computing cost.
An alternative to dense indexes is term-based ones. Building on
standard BOW models, Zamani et al. first introduced SNRM [28]: the
model embeds documents and queries in a sparse high-dimensional
latent space by means of ℓ1 regularization on representations. However, SNRM effectiveness remains limited and its efficiency has
been questioned [20]. More recently, there have been attempts to
transfer the knowledge from pre-trained LM to sparse approaches.
Based on BERT, DeepCT [4–6] focused on learning contextualized
term weights in the full vocabulary space – akin to BOW term
weights. However, as the vocabulary associated with a document
remains the same, this type of approach does not solve the vocabulary mismatch, as acknowledged by the use of query expansion for
retrieval [4]. A first solution to this problem consists in expanding
documents using generative approaches such as doc2query [19] and
docTTTTTquery [18] to predict expansion words for documents.
The document expansion adds new terms to documents – hence
fighting the vocabulary mismatch – as well as repeats existing
terms, implicitly performing re-weighting by boosting important
terms. These methods are however limited by the way they are
trained (predicting queries), which is indirect in nature and limit
their progress. A second solution to this problem, that has been
chosen by recent works such as [1, 16, 29], is to estimate the importance of each term of the vocabulary implied by each term of
the document, i.e. to compute an interaction matrix between the
document or query tokens and all the tokens from the vocabulary.
This is followed by an aggregation mechanism (roughly sum for
SparTerm [1], max for EPIC [16] and SPARTA [29]), that allows to
compute an importance weight for each term of the vocabulary, for
the full document or query. However, EPIC and SPARTA (document)
representations are not sparse enough by construction – unless
resorting on top-𝑘 pooling – contrary to SparTerm, for which fast
retrieval is thus possible. Furthermore, the latter does not include
(like SNRM) an explicit sparsity regularization, which hinders its
performance. Our SPLADE model relies on such regularization, as
well as other key changes, that boost both the efficiency and the
effectiveness of this type of models.
3 SPARSE LEXICAL REPRESENTATIONS FOR
FIRST-STAGE RANKING
In this section, we first describe in details the SparTerm model [1],
before presenting our model named SPLADE.
3.1 SparTerm
SparTerm predicts term importance – in BERT WordPiece vocabulary (|𝑉 | = 30522) – based on the logits of the Masked Language Model (MLM) layer. More precisely, let us consider an input
query or document sequence (after WordPiece tokenization) 𝑡 =
(𝑡1, 𝑡2, ..., 𝑡𝑁 ), and its corresponding BERT embeddings (ℎ1, ℎ2, ..., ℎ𝑁 ).
We consider the importance 𝑤𝑖𝑗 of the token 𝑗 (vocabulary) for a
token 𝑖 (of the input sequence):
𝑤𝑖𝑗 = transform(ℎ𝑖)
𝑇
𝐸𝑗 + 𝑏𝑗
𝑗 ∈ {1, ..., |𝑉 |} (1)
where 𝐸𝑗 denotes the BERT input embedding for token 𝑗, 𝑏𝑗
is a
token-level bias, and transform(.) is a linear layer with GeLU activation and LayerNorm. Note that Eq. 1 is equivalent to the MLM
prediction, thus it can be also be initialized from a pre-trained MLM
model. The final representation is then obtained by summing importance predictors over the input sequence tokens, after applying
ReLU to ensure the positivity of term weights:
𝑤𝑗 = 𝑔𝑗 ×
∑︁
𝑖 ∈𝑡
ReLU(𝑤𝑖𝑗) (2)
where 𝑔𝑗
is a binary mask (gating) described latter. The above
equation can be seen as a form of query/document expansion, as
observed in [1, 16], since for each token of the vocabulary the
model predicts a new weight 𝑤𝑗
. SparTerm [1] introduces two
sparsification schemes that turn off a large amount of dimensions
in query and document representations, allowing to efficiently
retrieve from an inverted index:
lexical-only is a BOW masking, i.e. 𝑔𝑗 = 1 if token 𝑗 appears
in 𝑡, and 0 otherwise;
expansion-aware is a lexical/expansion-aware binary gating
mechanism, where 𝑔𝑗
is learned. To preserve the original input, it
is forced to 1 if the token 𝑗 appears in 𝑡.
Let 𝑠(𝑞, 𝑑) denote the ranking score obtained via dot product between 𝑞 and 𝑑 representations from Eq. (2). Given a query 𝑞𝑖
, a
positive document 𝑑
+
𝑖
and a negative document 𝑑
−
𝑖
, SparTerm is
trained by minimzing the following loss:
L𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘 = − log 𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑+
𝑖
)
𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑+
𝑖
) + 𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑−
𝑖
)
(3)
Limitations. SparTerm expansion-aware gating is somewhat
intricate, and the model cannot be trained end-to-end: the gating
mechanism is learned beforehand, and fixed while fine-tuning the
matching model with L𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘 , therefore preventing the model to
learn the optimal sparsification strategy for the ranking task. Moreover, the two lexical and expansion-aware strategies do perform
almost equally well, questioning the actual benefits of expansion.
3.2 SPLADE: SParse Lexical AnD Expansion
model
In the following, we propose slight, but essential changes to the
SparTerm model that dramatically improve its performance.
Model. We introduce a minor change in the importance estimation from Eq. 2, by introducing a log-saturation effect which
prevents some terms to dominate and naturally ensures sparsity in
representations:
𝑤𝑗 =
∑︁
𝑖 ∈𝑡
log
1 + ReLU(𝑤𝑖𝑗)

(4)
While it is intuitive that using a log-saturation prevents some terms
from dominating – drawing a parallel with axiomatic approaches
in IR and log(tf) models [9] – the implied sparsity can seem surprising at first, but, according to our experiments, it obtains better
experimental results and allows already to obtain sparse solutions
without any regularization.
Ranking loss. Given a query 𝑞𝑖
in a batch, a positive document 𝑑
+
𝑖
, a (hard) negative document 𝑑
−
𝑖
(e.g. coming from BM25
sampling), and a set of negative documents in the batch (positive
documents from other queries) {𝑑
−
𝑖,𝑗 }𝑗
, we consider the ranking loss
from [8], which can be interpreted as the maximization of the probability of the document 𝑑
+
𝑖
being relevant among the documents
𝑑
+
𝑖
, 𝑑−
𝑖
and {𝑑
−
𝑖,𝑗 }:
L𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘−𝐼𝐵𝑁 = − log 𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑+
𝑖
)
𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑+
𝑖
) + 𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑−
𝑖
) +
Í
𝑗
𝑒
𝑠 (𝑞𝑖
,𝑑−
𝑖, 𝑗)
(5)
The in-batch negatives (IBN) sampling strategy is widely used
for training image retrieval models, and has shown to be effective
in learning first-stage rankers [8, 12, 15].
Learning sparse representations. The idea of learning sparse
representations for first-stage retrieval dates back to SNRM [28],
via ℓ1 regularization. Later, [20] pointed-out that minimizing the ℓ1
norm of representations does not result in the most efficient index,
as nothing ensures that posting lists are evenly distributed. Note
that this is even more true for standard indexes due to the Zipfian
nature of the term frequency distribution. To obtain a well-balanced
index, Paria et al. [20] introduce the FLOPS regularizer, a smooth
relaxation of the average number of floating-point operations necessary to compute the score of a document, and hence directly related
to the retrieval time. It is defined using 𝑎𝑗 as a continuous relaxation
of the activation (i.e. the term has a non zero weight) probability
𝑝𝑗 for token 𝑗, and estimated for documents 𝑑 in a batch of size 𝑁
by 𝑎¯𝑗 =
1
𝑁
Í𝑁
𝑖=1 𝑤
(𝑑𝑖)
𝑗
. This gives the following regularization loss
ℓFLOPS =
∑︁
𝑗 ∈𝑉
𝑎¯
2
𝑗
=
∑︁
𝑗 ∈𝑉

1
𝑁
∑︁
𝑁
𝑖=1
𝑤
(𝑑𝑖)
𝑗
!2
This differs from the ℓ1 regularization used in SNRM [28] where
the 𝑎¯𝑗 are not squared: using ℓFLOPS thus pushes down high average
term weight values, giving rise to a more balanced index.
Overall loss. We propose to combine the best of both worlds
for end-to-end training of sparse, expansion-aware representations
of documents and queries. Thus, we discard the binary gating in
SparTerm, and instead learn our log-saturated model (Eq. 4) by
jointly optimizing ranking and regularization losses:
L = L𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑘−𝐼𝐵𝑁 + 𝜆𝑞L
𝑞
reg + 𝜆𝑑L
𝑑
reg (6)
where Lreg is a sparse regularization (ℓ1 or ℓFLOPS). We use two distinct regularization weights (𝜆𝑑 and 𝜆𝑞) for queries and documents
– allowing to put more pressure on the sparsity for queries, which
is critical for fast retrieval.
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETTING AND RESULTS
We trained and evaluated our models on the MS MARCO passage
ranking dataset1
in the full ranking setting. The dataset contains
approximately 8.8M passages, and hundreds of thousands training
queries with shallow annotation (≈ 1.1 relevant passages per query
in average). The development set contains 6980 queries with similar
1https://github.com/microsoft/MSMARCO-Passage-Ranking
labels, while the TREC DL 2019 evaluation set provides fine-grained
annotations from human assessors for a set of 43 queries [3].
Training, indexing and retrieval. We initialized the models
with the BERT-base checkpoint. Models are trained with the ADAM
optimizer, using a learning rate of 2𝑒
−5 with linear scheduling and
a warmup of 6000 steps, and a batch size of 124. We keep the best
checkpoint using MRR@10 on a validation set of 500 queries, after
training for 150k iterations (note that this is not optimal, as we
validate on a re-ranking task). We consider a maximum length of
256 for input sequences. In order to mitigate the contribution of the
regularizer at the early stages of training, we follow [20] and use a
scheduler for 𝜆, quadratically increasing 𝜆 at each training iteration,
until a given step (50k in our case), from which it remains constant.
Typical values for 𝜆 fall between 1𝑒
−1
and 1𝑒
−4
. For storing the
index, we use a custom implementation based on Python arrays,
and we rely on Numba [14] to parallelize retrieval. Models2
are
trained using PyTorch [21] and HuggingFace transformers [24], on
4 Tesla 𝑉 100 GPUs with 32GB memory.
Evaluation. We report Recall@1000 for both datasets, as well
as the official metrics MRR@10 and NDCG@10 for MS MARCO dev
set and TREC DL 2019 respectively. Since we are essentially interested in the first retrieval step, we do not consider re-rankers based
on BERT, and we compare our approach to first stage rankers only
– results reported on the MS MARCO leaderboard are thus not comparable to the results presented here. We compare to the following
sparse approaches (1) BM25 (2) DeepCT [4] (3) doc2query-T5 [18]
(4) and SparTerm [1], as well as state-of-the-art dense approaches
ANCE [25] and TCT-ColBERT [15]. We report the results from the
original papers. We include a pure lexical SparTerm trained with
our ranking pipeline (ST lexical-only). To illustrate the benefits of
the log-saturation, we add results for models trained using Eq. (2) instead of Eq. (4) (ST exp-ℓ1 and ST exp-ℓFLOPS). For sparse models, we
indicate an estimation of the average number of floating-point operations between a query and a document in Table 1, when available,
which is defined as the expectation E𝑞,𝑑 hÍ
𝑗 ∈𝑉 𝑝
(𝑞)
𝑗
𝑝
(𝑑)
𝑗
i
where
𝑝𝑗
is the activation probability for token 𝑗 in a document 𝑑 or a
query 𝑞. It is empirically estimated from a set of approximately
100k development queries, on the MS MARCO collection.
Results are given in Table 1. Overall, we observe that: (1) our models outperform the other sparse retrieval methods by a large margin
(except for recall@1000 on TREC DL); (2) the results are competitive
with state-of-the-art dense retrieval methods.
More specifically, our training method for ST lexical-only already
outperforms the results of DeepCT as well as the results reported in
the original SparTerm paper – including the model using expansion.
Thanks to the additional sparse expansion mechanism, we are able
to obtain results on par with state-of-the-art dense approaches on
MS MARCO dev set (e.g. Recall@1000 close to 0.96 for ST exp-ℓ1),
but with a much bigger average number of FLOPS.
By adding a log-saturation effect to the expansion model, SPLADE
greatly increases sparsity – reducing the FLOPS to similar levels
than BOW approaches – at no cost on performance when compared
to the best first-stage rankers. In addition, we observe the advantage
2We made the code public at https://github.com/naver/splade
Table 1: Evaluation on MS MARCO passage retrieval (dev set)
and TREC DL 2019
model MS MARCO dev TREC DL 2019 FLOPS
MRR@10 R@1000 NDCG@10 R@1000
Dense retrieval
Siamese (ours) 0.312 0.941 0.637 0.711 -
ANCE [25] 0.330 0.959 0.648 - -
TCT-ColBERT [15] 0.335 0.964 0.670 0.720 -
Sparse retrieval
BM25 0.184 0.853 0.506 0.745 0.13
DeepCT [4] 0.243 0.913 0.551 0.756 -
doc2query-T5 [18] 0.277 0.947 0.642 0.827 0.81
ST lexical-only [1] 0.275 0.912 - - -
ST expansion [1] 0.279 0.925 - - -
Our methods
ST lexical-only 0.290 0.923 0.595 0.774 1.84
ST exp-ℓ1 0.314 0.959 0.668 0.800 4.62
ST exp-ℓFLOPS 0.312 0.954 0.671 0.813 2.83
SPLADE-ℓ1 0.322 0.954 0.667 0.792 0.88
SPLADE-ℓFLOPS 0.322 0.955 0.665 0.813 0.73
of the FLOPS regularization over ℓ1 in order to decrease the computing cost. Note that in contrast to SparTerm, SPLADE is trained
end-to end in a single step. It is also remarkably simple, compared
to dense state-of-the-art baselines such as ANCE [25], and avoids
resorting to approximate neighbors search, whose impact on IR
metrics has not been fully evaluated yet.
Effectiveness-efficiency trade-off. Figure 1 illustrates the tradeoff between effectiveness (MRR@10) and efficiency (FLOPS), when
we vary 𝜆𝑞 and 𝜆𝑑
(varying both implies that plots are not smooth).
We observe that ST exp-ℓFLOPS falls far behind BOW models and
Figure 1: Performance vs FLOPS for SPLADE models trained
with different regularization strength 𝜆 on MS MARCO
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
# FLOPS
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
MRR@10 (dev set)
avg q len ' 6
avg d len ' 18
avg q len ' 15
avg d len ' 58
doc2query-T5
SparTerm lexical
ST exp-`F LOP S
SPLADE-`1
SPLADE-`F LOP S
Table 2: Document and expansion terms: between parenthesis
is the weight associated with the term – omitted for the second occurrence of the term in the document, and strike-through for zeros
original document (doc ID: 7131647)
if (1.2) bow (2.56) legs (1.18) is caused (1.29) by (0.47) the bone (1.2) alignment
(1.88) issue (0.87) than you may be able (0.29) to correct (1.37) through (0.43)
bow legs correction (1.05) exercises. read more here.. if bow legs is caused by
the bone alignment issue than you may be able to correct through bow legs
correction exercises.
expansion terms
(leg, 1.62) (arrow, 0.7) (exercise, 0.64) (bones, 0.63) (problem, 0.41) (treatment,
0.35) (happen, 0.29) (create, 0.22) (can, 0.14) (worse, 0.14) (effect, 0.08) (teeth,
0.06) (remove, 0.03)
SPLADE in terms of efficiency. In the meantime, SPLADE reaches efficiency levels equivalent to sparse BOW models, while outperforming doc2query-T5. Interestingly, strongly regularized models still
show competitive performance (e.g. FLOPS=0.05, MRR@10=0.296).
Finally, the regularization effect brought by ℓFLOPS compared to ℓ1
is clear: for the same level of efficiency, performance of the latter is
always lower.
The role of expansion. Experiments show that the expansion
brings improvements w.r.t. to the purely lexical approach by increasing recall. Additionally, representations obtained from expansionregularized models are sparser: the models learn how to balance
expansion and compression, by both turning-off irrelevant dimensions and activating useful ones. On a set of 10k documents, the
SPLADE-ℓFLOPS from Table 1 drops in average 20 terms per document, while adding 32 expansion terms. For one of our most efficient
model (FLOPS=0.05), 34 terms are dropped in average, for only 5
new expansion terms. In this case, representations are extremely
sparse: documents and queries contain in average 18 and 6 non-zero
values respectively, and we need less that 1.4 GB to store the index
on disk. Table 2 shows an example where the model performs term
re-weighting by emphasizing on important terms and discarding
most of the terms without information content. Expansion allows
to enrich documents, either by implicitly adding stemming effects
(legs → leg) or by adding relevant topic words (e.g. treatment).
5 CONCLUSION
Recently, dense retrieval based on BERT has demonstrated its superiority for first-stage retrieval, questioning the competitiveness of
traditional sparse models. In this work, we have proposed SPLADE,
a sparse model revisiting query/document expansion. Our approach
relies on in-batch negatives, logarithmic activation and FLOPS regularization to learn effective and efficient sparse representations.
SPLADE is an appealing candidate for initial retrieval: it rivals the
latest state-of-the-art dense retrieval models, its training procedure
is straightforward, its sparsity/FLOPS can be controlled explicitly
through the regularization, and it can operate on inverted indexes.
In reason of its simplicity, SPLADE is a solid basis for further improvements in this line of research.
REFERENCES
[1] Yang Bai, Xiaoguang Li, Gang Wang, Chaoliang Zhang, Lifeng Shang, Jun Xu,
Zhaowei Wang, Fangshan Wang, and Qun Liu. 2020. SparTerm: Learning Termbased Sparse Representation for Fast Text Retrieval. arXiv:2010.00768 [cs.IR]
[2] Leonid Boytsov. 2018. Efficient and Accurate Non-Metric k-NN Search with Applications to Text Matching. Ph.D. Dissertation. Carnegie Mellon University.
[3] Nick Craswell, Bhaskar Mitra, Emine Yilmaz, Daniel Campos, and Ellen M
Voorhees. 2020. Overview of the trec 2019 deep learning track. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2003.07820 (2020).
[4] Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2019. Context-Aware Sentence/Passage Term
Importance Estimation For First Stage Retrieval. arXiv:1910.10687 [cs.IR]
[5] Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2020. Context-Aware Document Term Weighting
for Ad-Hoc Search. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
1897–1907. https://doi.org/10.1145/3366423.3380258
[6] Zhuyun Dai and Jamie Callan. 2020. Context-Aware Term Weighting For First
Stage Passage Retrieval. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 1533–1536. https://doi.org/10.1145/3397271.3401204
[7] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
CoRR abs/1810.04805 (2018). arXiv:1810.04805 http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805
[8] Yingqi Qu Yuchen Ding, Jing Liu, Kai Liu, Ruiyang Ren, Xin Zhao, Daxiang
Dong, Hua Wu, and Haifeng Wang. 2020. RocketQA: An Optimized Training
Approach to Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering.
arXiv:2010.08191 [cs.CL]
[9] Hui Fang, Tao Tao, and ChengXiang Zhai. 2004. A Formal Study of Information
Retrieval Heuristics. In Proceedings of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Sheffield, United
Kingdom) (SIGIR ’04). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
49–56. https://doi.org/10.1145/1008992.1009004
[10] Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei
Chang. 2020. REALM: Retrieval-Augmented Language Model Pre-Training.
arXiv:2002.08909 [cs.CL]
[11] Sebastian Hofstätter, Sophia Althammer, Michael Schröder, Mete Sertkan, and
Allan Hanbury. 2020. Improving Efficient Neural Ranking Models with CrossArchitecture Knowledge Distillation. arXiv:2010.02666 [cs.IR]
[12] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oğuz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey
Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen tau Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for OpenDomain Question Answering. arXiv:2004.04906 [cs.CL]
[13] Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. 2020. ColBERT: Efficient and Effective Passage
Search via Contextualized Late Interaction over BERT. In Proceedings of the 43rd
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval (Virtual Event, China) (SIGIR ’20). Association for Computing Machinery,
New York, NY, USA, 39–48. https://doi.org/10.1145/3397271.3401075
[14] Siu Kwan Lam, Antoine Pitrou, and Stanley Seibert. 2015. Numba: A llvm-based
python jit compiler. In Proceedings of the Second Workshop on the LLVM Compiler
Infrastructure in HPC. 1–6.
[15] Sheng-Chieh Lin, Jheng-Hong Yang, and Jimmy Lin. 2020. Distilling Dense Representations for Ranking using Tightly-Coupled Teachers. arXiv:2010.11386 [cs.IR]
[16] Sean MacAvaney, Franco Maria Nardini, Raffaele Perego, Nicola Tonellotto, Nazli
Goharian, and Ophir Frieder. 2020. Expansion via Prediction of Importance with
Contextualization. Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Jul 2020). https://doi.org/10.
1145/3397271.3401262
[17] Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Passage Re-ranking with BERT.
arXiv:1901.04085 [cs.IR]
[18] Rodrigo Nogueira and Jimmy Lin. 2019. From doc2query to docTTTTTquery.
[19] Rodrigo Nogueira, Wei Yang, Jimmy Lin, and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Document
Expansion by Query Prediction. arXiv:1904.08375 [cs.IR]
[20] Biswajit Paria, Chih-Kuan Yeh, Ian E. H. Yen, Ning Xu, Pradeep Ravikumar, and
Barnabás Póczos. 2020. Minimizing FLOPs to Learn Efficient Sparse Representations. arXiv:2004.05665 [cs.LG]
[21] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory
Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. 2019.
PyTorch: An Imperative Style, High-Performance Deep Learning Library.. In
NeurIPS.
[22] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings
using Siamese BERT-Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational
Linguistics. http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10084
[23] Zhengkai Tu, Wei Yang, Zihang Fu, Yuqing Xie, Luchen Tan, Kun Xiong, Ming
Li, and Jimmy Lin. 2020. Approximate Nearest Neighbor Search and Lightweight
Dense Vector Reranking in Multi-Stage Retrieval Architectures. In Proceedings of
the 2020 ACM SIGIR on International Conference on Theory of Information Retrieval.
97–100.
[24] Thomas Wolf, Lysandre Debut, Victor Sanh, Julien Chaumond, Clement Delangue,
Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe
Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu,
Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest,
and Alexander M. Rush. 2020. HuggingFace’s Transformers: State-of-the-art
Natural Language Processing. arXiv:1910.03771 [cs.CL]
[25] Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang, Jialin Liu, Paul Bennett,
Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold Overwijk. 2020. Approximate Nearest Neighbor
Negative Contrastive Learning for Dense Text Retrieval. arXiv:2007.00808 [cs.IR]
[26] Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang, Jialin Liu, Paul N. Bennett,
Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold Overwikj. 2021. Approximate Nearest Neighbor Negative Contrastive Learning for Dense Text Retrieval. In International Conference
on Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=zeFrfgyZln
[27] Wei Yang, Kuang Lu, Peilin Yang, and Jimmy Lin. 2019. Critically Examining the
“Neural Hype”. Proceedings of the 42nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval (Jul 2019). https://doi.org/10.
1145/3331184.3331340
[28] Hamed Zamani, Mostafa Dehghani, W. Bruce Croft, Erik Learned-Miller, and
Jaap Kamps. 2018. From Neural Re-Ranking to Neural Ranking: Learning a
Sparse Representation for Inverted Indexing. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM
International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (Torino,
Italy) (CIKM ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
497–506. https://doi.org/10.1145/3269206.3271800
[29] Tiancheng Zhao, Xiaopeng Lu, and Kyusong Lee. 2020. SPARTA: Efficient
Open-Domain Question Answering via Sparse Transformer Matching Retrieval.
arXiv:2009.13013 [cs.CL]
Dense Passage Retrieval for Open-Domain Question Answering
Vladimir Karpukhin∗
, Barlas Oguz ˘
∗
, Sewon Min†
, Patrick Lewis,
Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen‡
, Wen-tau Yih
Facebook AI †University of Washington ‡Princeton University
{vladk, barlaso, plewis, ledell, edunov, scottyih}@fb.com
sewon@cs.washington.edu
danqic@cs.princeton.edu
Abstract
Open-domain question answering relies on efficient passage retrieval to select candidate
contexts, where traditional sparse vector space
models, such as TF-IDF or BM25, are the de
facto method. In this work, we show that
retrieval can be practically implemented using dense representations alone, where embeddings are learned from a small number
of questions and passages by a simple dualencoder framework. When evaluated on a
wide range of open-domain QA datasets, our
dense retriever outperforms a strong LuceneBM25 system greatly by 9%-19% absolute in
terms of top-20 passage retrieval accuracy, and
helps our end-to-end QA system establish new
state-of-the-art on multiple open-domain QA
benchmarks.1
1 Introduction
Open-domain question answering (QA) (Voorhees,
1999) is a task that answers factoid questions using a large collection of documents. While early
QA systems are often complicated and consist of
multiple components (Ferrucci (2012); Moldovan
et al. (2003), inter alia), the advances of reading
comprehension models suggest a much simplified
two-stage framework: (1) a context retriever first
selects a small subset of passages where some
of them contain the answer to the question, and
then (2) a machine reader can thoroughly examine the retrieved contexts and identify the correct
answer (Chen et al., 2017). Although reducing
open-domain QA to machine reading is a very reasonable strategy, a huge performance degradation
is often observed in practice2
, indicating the needs
of improving retrieval.
∗Equal contribution
1The code and trained models have been released at
https://github.com/facebookresearch/DPR.
2
For instance, the exact match score on SQuAD v1.1 drops
from above 80% to less than 40% (Yang et al., 2019a).
Retrieval in open-domain QA is usually implemented using TF-IDF or BM25 (Robertson and
Zaragoza, 2009), which matches keywords efficiently with an inverted index and can be seen
as representing the question and context in highdimensional, sparse vectors (with weighting). Conversely, the dense, latent semantic encoding is complementary to sparse representations by design. For
example, synonyms or paraphrases that consist of
completely different tokens may still be mapped to
vectors close to each other. Consider the question
“Who is the bad guy in lord of the rings?”, which can
be answered from the context “Sala Baker is best
known for portraying the villain Sauron in the Lord
of the Rings trilogy.” A term-based system would
have difficulty retrieving such a context, while
a dense retrieval system would be able to better
match “bad guy” with “villain” and fetch the correct context. Dense encodings are also learnable
by adjusting the embedding functions, which provides additional flexibility to have a task-specific
representation. With special in-memory data structures and indexing schemes, retrieval can be done
efficiently using maximum inner product search
(MIPS) algorithms (e.g., Shrivastava and Li (2014);
Guo et al. (2016)).
However, it is generally believed that learning a good dense vector representation needs a
large number of labeled pairs of question and contexts. Dense retrieval methods have thus never
be shown to outperform TF-IDF/BM25 for opendomain QA before ORQA (Lee et al., 2019), which
proposes a sophisticated inverse cloze task (ICT)
objective, predicting the blocks that contain the
masked sentence, for additional pretraining. The
question encoder and the reader model are then finetuned using pairs of questions and answers jointly.
Although ORQA successfully demonstrates that
dense retrieval can outperform BM25, setting new
state-of-the-art results on multiple open-domain
arXiv:2004.04906v3 [cs.CL] 30 Sep 2020
QA datasets, it also suffers from two weaknesses.
First, ICT pretraining is computationally intensive
and it is not completely clear that regular sentences
are good surrogates of questions in the objective
function. Second, because the context encoder is
not fine-tuned using pairs of questions and answers,
the corresponding representations could be suboptimal.
In this paper, we address the question: can we
train a better dense embedding model using only
pairs of questions and passages (or answers), without additional pretraining? By leveraging the now
standard BERT pretrained model (Devlin et al.,
2019) and a dual-encoder architecture (Bromley
et al., 1994), we focus on developing the right
training scheme using a relatively small number
of question and passage pairs. Through a series
of careful ablation studies, our final solution is
surprisingly simple: the embedding is optimized
for maximizing inner products of the question and
relevant passage vectors, with an objective comparing all pairs of questions and passages in a batch.
Our Dense Passage Retriever (DPR) is exceptionally strong. It not only outperforms BM25 by a
large margin (65.2% vs. 42.9% in Top-5 accuracy),
but also results in a substantial improvement on
the end-to-end QA accuracy compared to ORQA
(41.5% vs. 33.3%) in the open Natural Questions
setting (Lee et al., 2019; Kwiatkowski et al., 2019).
Our contributions are twofold. First, we demonstrate that with the proper training setup, simply fine-tuning the question and passage encoders
on existing question-passage pairs is sufficient to
greatly outperform BM25. Our empirical results
also suggest that additional pretraining may not be
needed. Second, we verify that, in the context of
open-domain question answering, a higher retrieval
precision indeed translates to a higher end-to-end
QA accuracy. By applying a modern reader model
to the top retrieved passages, we achieve comparable or better results on multiple QA datasets in the
open-retrieval setting, compared to several, much
complicated systems.
2 Background
The problem of open-domain QA studied in this
paper can be described as follows. Given a factoid
question, such as “Who first voiced Meg on Family
Guy?” or “Where was the 8th Dalai Lama born?”, a
system is required to answer it using a large corpus
of diversified topics. More specifically, we assume
the extractive QA setting, in which the answer is
restricted to a span appearing in one or more passages in the corpus. Assume that our collection
contains D documents, d1, d2, · · · , dD. We first
split each of the documents into text passages of
equal lengths as the basic retrieval units3
and get M
total passages in our corpus C = {p1, p2, . . . , pM},
where each passage pi can be viewed as a sequence
of tokens w
(i)
1
, w
(i)
2
, · · · , w
(i)
|pi|
. Given a question q,
the task is to find a span w
(i)
s , w
(i)
s+1, · · · , w
(i)
e from
one of the passages pi
that can answer the question.
Notice that to cover a wide variety of domains, the
corpus size can easily range from millions of documents (e.g., Wikipedia) to billions (e.g., the Web).
As a result, any open-domain QA system needs to
include an efficient retriever component that can select a small set of relevant texts, before applying the
reader to extract the answer (Chen et al., 2017).4
Formally speaking, a retriever R : (q, C) → CF
is a function that takes as input a question q and a
corpus C and returns a much smaller filter set of
texts CF ⊂ C, where |CF | = k  |C|. For a fixed
k, a retriever can be evaluated in isolation on top-k
retrieval accuracy, which is the fraction of questions for which CF contains a span that answers the
question.
3 Dense Passage Retriever (DPR)
We focus our research in this work on improving the retrieval component in open-domain QA.
Given a collection of M text passages, the goal of
our dense passage retriever (DPR) is to index all
the passages in a low-dimensional and continuous
space, such that it can retrieve efficiently the top
k passages relevant to the input question for the
reader at run-time. Note that M can be very large
(e.g., 21 million passages in our experiments, described in Section 4.1) and k is usually small, such
as 20–100.
3.1 Overview
Our dense passage retriever (DPR) uses a dense
encoder EP (·) which maps any text passage to a ddimensional real-valued vectors and builds an index
for all the M passages that we will use for retrieval.
3The ideal size and boundary of a text passage are functions of both the retriever and reader. We also experimented
with natural paragraphs in our preliminary trials and found that
using fixed-length passages performs better in both retrieval
and final QA accuracy, as observed by Wang et al. (2019).
4Exceptions include (Seo et al., 2019) and (Roberts et al.,
2020), which retrieves and generates the answers, respectively.
At run-time, DPR applies a different encoder EQ(·)
that maps the input question to a d-dimensional
vector, and retrieves k passages of which vectors
are the closest to the question vector. We define
the similarity between the question and the passage
using the dot product of their vectors:
sim(q, p) = EQ(q)
|EP (p). (1)
Although more expressive model forms for measuring the similarity between a question and a passage
do exist, such as networks consisting of multiple
layers of cross attentions, the similarity function
needs to be decomposable so that the representations of the collection of passages can be precomputed. Most decomposable similarity functions
are some transformations of Euclidean distance
(L2). For instance, cosine is equivalent to inner
product for unit vectors and the Mahalanobis distance is equivalent to L2 distance in a transformed
space. Inner product search has been widely used
and studied, as well as its connection to cosine
similarity and L2 distance (Mussmann and Ermon,
2016; Ram and Gray, 2012). As our ablation study
finds other similarity functions perform comparably (Section 5.2; Appendix B), we thus choose
the simpler inner product function and improve the
dense passage retriever by learning better encoders.
Encoders Although in principle the question and
passage encoders can be implemented by any neural networks, in this work we use two independent
BERT (Devlin et al., 2019) networks (base, uncased) and take the representation at the [CLS]
token as the output, so d = 768.
Inference During inference time, we apply the
passage encoder EP to all the passages and index
them using FAISS (Johnson et al., 2017) offline.
FAISS is an extremely efficient, open-source library for similarity search and clustering of dense
vectors, which can easily be applied to billions of
vectors. Given a question q at run-time, we derive
its embedding vq = EQ(q) and retrieve the top k
passages with embeddings closest to vq.
3.2 Training
Training the encoders so that the dot-product similarity (Eq. (1)) becomes a good ranking function
for retrieval is essentially a metric learning problem (Kulis, 2013). The goal is to create a vector
space such that relevant pairs of questions and passages will have smaller distance (i.e., higher similarity) than the irrelevant ones, by learning a better
embedding function.
Let D = {hqi
, p+
i
, p−
i,1
, · · · , p−
i,ni}m
i=1 be the
training data that consists of m instances. Each
instance contains one question qi and one relevant
(positive) passage p
+
i
, along with n irrelevant (negative) passages p
−
i,j . We optimize the loss function
as the negative log likelihood of the positive passage:
L(qi
, p+
i
, p−
i,1
, · · · , p−
i,n) (2)
= − log e
sim(qi,p
+
i
)
e
sim(qi,p
+
i
) +
Pn
j=1 e
sim(qi,p
−
i,j )
.
Positive and negative passages For retrieval
problems, it is often the case that positive examples
are available explicitly, while negative examples
need to be selected from an extremely large pool.
For instance, passages relevant to a question may
be given in a QA dataset, or can be found using the
answer. All other passages in the collection, while
not specified explicitly, can be viewed as irrelevant
by default. In practice, how to select negative examples is often overlooked but could be decisive
for learning a high-quality encoder. We consider
three different types of negatives: (1) Random: any
random passage from the corpus; (2) BM25: top
passages returned by BM25 which don’t contain
the answer but match most question tokens; (3)
Gold: positive passages paired with other questions
which appear in the training set. We will discuss the
impact of different types of negative passages and
training schemes in Section 5.2. Our best model
uses gold passages from the same mini-batch and
one BM25 negative passage. In particular, re-using
gold passages from the same batch as negatives
can make the computation efficient while achieving great performance. We discuss this approach
below.
In-batch negatives Assume that we have B
questions in a mini-batch and each one is associated with a relevant passage. Let Q and P be the
(B×d) matrix of question and passage embeddings
in a batch of size B. S = QPT
is a (B × B) matrix of similarity scores, where each row of which
corresponds to a question, paired with B passages.
In this way, we reuse computation and effectively
train on B2
(qi
, pj ) question/passage pairs in each
batch. Any (qi
, pj ) pair is a positive example when
i = j, and negative otherwise. This creates B training instances in each batch, where there are B − 1
negative passages for each question.
The trick of in-batch negatives has been used in
the full batch setting (Yih et al., 2011) and more
recently for mini-batch (Henderson et al., 2017;
Gillick et al., 2019). It has been shown to be an
effective strategy for learning a dual-encoder model
that boosts the number of training examples.
4 Experimental Setup
In this section, we describe the data we used for
experiments and the basic setup.
4.1 Wikipedia Data Pre-processing
Following (Lee et al., 2019), we use the English
Wikipedia dump from Dec. 20, 2018 as the source
documents for answering questions. We first apply
the pre-processing code released in DrQA (Chen
et al., 2017) to extract the clean, text-portion of
articles from the Wikipedia dump. This step removes semi-structured data, such as tables, infoboxes, lists, as well as the disambiguation pages.
We then split each article into multiple, disjoint text
blocks of 100 words as passages, serving as our
basic retrieval units, following (Wang et al., 2019),
which results in 21,015,324 passages in the end.5
Each passage is also prepended with the title of the
Wikipedia article where the passage is from, along
with an [SEP] token.
4.2 Question Answering Datasets
We use the same five QA datasets and training/dev/testing splitting method as in previous
work (Lee et al., 2019). Below we briefly describe
each dataset and refer readers to their paper for the
details of data preparation.
Natural Questions (NQ) (Kwiatkowski et al.,
2019) was designed for end-to-end question answering. The questions were mined from real
Google search queries and the answers were spans
in Wikipedia articles identified by annotators.
TriviaQA (Joshi et al., 2017) contains a set of trivia
questions with answers that were originally scraped
from the Web.
WebQuestions (WQ) (Berant et al., 2013) consists
of questions selected using Google Suggest API,
where the answers are entities in Freebase.
CuratedTREC (TREC) (Baudis and ˇ Sediv ˇ y`,
2015) sources questions from TREC QA tracks
5However, Wang et al. (2019) also propose splitting documents into overlapping passages, which we do not find advantageous compared to the non-overlapping version.
Dataset Train Dev Test
Natural Questions 79,168 58,880 8,757 3,610
TriviaQA 78,785 60,413 8,837 11,313
WebQuestions 3,417 2,474 361 2,032
CuratedTREC 1,353 1,125 133 694
SQuAD 78,713 70,096 8,886 10,570
Table 1: Number of questions in each QA dataset. The
two columns of Train denote the original training examples in the dataset and the actual questions used for
training DPR after filtering. See text for more details.
as well as various Web sources and is intended for
open-domain QA from unstructured corpora.
SQuAD v1.1 (Rajpurkar et al., 2016) is a popular benchmark dataset for reading comprehension.
Annotators were presented with a Wikipedia paragraph, and asked to write questions that could be
answered from the given text. Although SQuAD
has been used previously for open-domain QA research, it is not ideal because many questions lack
context in absence of the provided paragraph. We
still include it in our experiments for providing
a fair comparison to previous work and we will
discuss more in Section 5.1.
Selection of positive passages Because only
pairs of questions and answers are provided in
TREC, WebQuestions and TriviaQA6
, we use the
highest-ranked passage from BM25 that contains
the answer as the positive passage. If none of the
top 100 retrieved passages has the answer, the question will be discarded. For SQuAD and Natural
Questions, since the original passages have been
split and processed differently than our pool of
candidate passages, we match and replace each
gold passage with the corresponding passage in the
candidate pool.7 We discard the questions when
the matching is failed due to different Wikipedia
versions or pre-processing. Table 1 shows the number of questions in training/dev/test sets for all the
datasets and the actual questions used for training
the retriever.
5 Experiments: Passage Retrieval
In this section, we evaluate the retrieval performance of our Dense Passage Retriever (DPR),
along with analysis on how its output differs from
6We use the unfiltered TriviaQA version and discard the
noisy evidence documents mined from Bing.
7The improvement of using gold contexts over passages
that contain answers is small. See Section 5.2 and Appendix A.
Training Retriever Top-20 Top-100
NQ TriviaQA WQ TREC SQuAD NQ TriviaQA WQ TREC SQuAD
None BM25 59.1 66.9 55.0 70.9 68.8 73.7 76.7 71.1 84.1 80.0
Single DPR 78.4 79.4 73.2 79.8 63.2 85.4 85.0 81.4 89.1 77.2
BM25 + DPR 76.6 79.8 71.0 85.2 71.5 83.8 84.5 80.5 92.7 81.3
Multi DPR 79.4 78.8 75.0 89.1 51.6 86.0 84.7 82.9 93.9 67.6
BM25 + DPR 78.0 79.9 74.7 88.5 66.2 83.9 84.4 82.3 94.1 78.6
Table 2: Top-20 & Top-100 retrieval accuracy on test sets, measured as the percentage of top 20/100 retrieved
passages that contain the answer. Single and Multi denote that our Dense Passage Retriever (DPR) was trained
using individial or combined training datasets (all the datasets excluding SQuAD). See text for more details.
traditional retrieval methods, the effects of different
training schemes and the run-time efficiency.
The DPR model used in our main experiments
is trained using the in-batch negative setting (Section 3.2) with a batch size of 128 and one additional
BM25 negative passage per question. We trained
the question and passage encoders for up to 40
epochs for large datasets (NQ, TriviaQA, SQuAD)
and 100 epochs for small datasets (TREC, WQ),
with a learning rate of 10−5 using Adam, linear
scheduling with warm-up and dropout rate 0.1.
While it is good to have the flexibility to adapt
the retriever to each dataset, it would also be desirable to obtain a single retriever that works well
across the board. To this end, we train a multidataset encoder by combining training data from
all datasets excluding SQuAD.8
In addition to DPR,
we also present the results of BM25, the traditional
retrieval method9
and BM25+DPR, using a linear
combination of their scores as the new ranking
function. Specifically, we obtain two initial sets
of top-2000 passages based on BM25 and DPR,
respectively, and rerank the union of them using
BM25(q,p) + λ · sim(q, p) as the ranking function.
We used λ = 1.1 based on the retrieval accuracy in
the development set.
5.1 Main Results
Table 2 compares different passage retrieval systems on five QA datasets, using the top-k accuracy
(k ∈ {20, 100}). With the exception of SQuAD,
DPR performs consistently better than BM25 on
all datasets. The gap is especially large when k is
small (e.g., 78.4% vs. 59.1% for top-20 accuracy
on Natural Questions). When training with mul8
SQuAD is limited to a small set of Wikipedia documents
and thus introduces unwanted bias. We will discuss this issue
more in Section 5.1.
9Lucene implementation. BM25 parameters b = 0.4 (document length normalization) and k1 = 0.9 (term frequency
scaling) are tuned using development sets.
20 40 60 80 100
k: # of retrieved passages
40
50
60
70
80
90
Top-k accuracy (%)
BM25
# Train: 1k
# Train: 10k
# Train: 20k
# Train: 40k
# Train: all (59k)
Figure 1: Retriever top-k accuracy with different numbers of training examples used in our dense passage retriever vs BM25. The results are measured on the development set of Natural Questions. Our DPR trained
using 1,000 examples already outperforms BM25.
tiple datasets, TREC, the smallest dataset of the
five, benefits greatly from more training examples.
In contrast, Natural Questions and WebQuestions
improve modestly and TriviaQA degrades slightly.
Results can be improved further in some cases by
combining DPR with BM25 in both single- and
multi-dataset settings.
We conjecture that the lower performance on
SQuAD is due to two reasons. First, the annotators wrote questions after seeing the passage. As
a result, there is a high lexical overlap between
passages and questions, which gives BM25 a clear
advantage. Second, the data was collected from
only 500+ Wikipedia articles and thus the distribution of training examples is extremely biased, as
argued previously by Lee et al. (2019).
5.2 Ablation Study on Model Training
To understand further how different model training
options affect the results, we conduct several additional experiments and discuss our findings below.
Sample efficiency We explore how many training examples are needed to achieve good passage
retrieval performance. Figure 1 illustrates the top-k
retrieval accuracy with respect to different numbers of training examples, measured on the development set of Natural Questions. As is shown, a
dense passage retriever trained using only 1,000 examples already outperforms BM25. This suggests
that with a general pretrained language model, it is
possible to train a high-quality dense retriever with
a small number of question–passage pairs. Adding
more training examples (from 1k to 59k) further
improves the retrieval accuracy consistently.
In-batch negative training We test different
training schemes on the development set of Natural
Questions and summarize the results in Table 3.
The top block is the standard 1-of-N training setting, where each question in the batch is paired
with a positive passage and its own set of n negative passages (Eq. (2)). We find that the choice
of negatives — random, BM25 or gold passages
(positive passages from other questions) — does
not impact the top-k accuracy much in this setting
when k ≥ 20.
The middle bock is the in-batch negative training
(Section 3.2) setting. We find that using a similar
configuration (7 gold negative passages), in-batch
negative training improves the results substantially.
The key difference between the two is whether the
gold negative passages come from the same batch
or from the whole training set. Effectively, in-batch
negative training is an easy and memory-efficient
way to reuse the negative examples already in the
batch rather than creating new ones. It produces
more pairs and thus increases the number of training examples, which might contribute to the good
model performance. As a result, accuracy consistently improves as the batch size grows.
Finally, we explore in-batch negative training
with additional “hard” negative passages that have
high BM25 scores given the question, but do not
contain the answer string (the bottom block). These
additional passages are used as negative passages
for all questions in the same batch. We find that
adding a single BM25 negative passage improves
the result substantially while adding two does not
help further.
Impact of gold passages We use passages that
match the gold contexts in the original datasets
(when available) as positive examples (Section 4.2).
Type #N IB Top-5 Top-20 Top-100
Random 7 ✗ 47.0 64.3 77.8
BM25 7 ✗ 50.0 63.3 74.8
Gold 7 ✗ 42.6 63.1 78.3
Gold 7 ✓ 51.1 69.1 80.8
Gold 31 ✓ 52.1 70.8 82.1
Gold 127 ✓ 55.8 73.0 83.1
G.+BM25(1) 31+32 ✓ 65.0 77.3 84.4
G.+BM25(2) 31+64 ✓ 64.5 76.4 84.0
G.+BM25(1) 127+128 ✓ 65.8 78.0 84.9
Table 3: Comparison of different training schemes,
measured as top-k retrieval accuracy on Natural Questions (development set). #N: number of negative
examples, IB: in-batch training. G.+BM25(1) and
G.+BM25(2) denote in-batch training with 1 or 2 additional BM25 negatives, which serve as negative passages for all questions in the batch.
Our experiments on Natural Questions show that
switching to distantly-supervised passages (using
the highest-ranked BM25 passage that contains the
answer), has only a small impact: 1 point lower
top-k accuracy for retrieval. Appendix A contains
more details.
Similarity and loss Besides dot product, cosine
and Euclidean L2 distance are also commonly used
as decomposable similarity functions. We test these
alternatives and find that L2 performs comparable to dot product, and both of them are superior
to cosine. Similarly, in addition to negative loglikelihood, a popular option for ranking is triplet
loss, which compares a positive passage and a negative one directly with respect to a question (Burges
et al., 2005). Our experiments show that using
triplet loss does not affect the results much. More
details can be found in Appendix B.
Cross-dataset generalization One interesting
question regarding DPR’s discriminative training
is how much performance degradation it may suffer from a non-iid setting. In other words, can
it still generalize well when directly applied to
a different dataset without additional fine-tuning?
To test the cross-dataset generalization, we train
DPR on Natural Questions only and test it directly
on the smaller WebQuestions and CuratedTREC
datasets. We find that DPR generalizes well, with
3-5 points loss from the best performing fine-tuned
model in top-20 retrieval accuracy (69.9/86.3 vs.
75.0/89.1 for WebQuestions and TREC, respectively), while still greatly outperforming the BM25
baseline (55.0/70.9).
5.3 Qualitative Analysis
Although DPR performs better than BM25 in general, passages retrieved by these two methods differ qualitatively. Term-matching methods like
BM25 are sensitive to highly selective keywords
and phrases, while DPR captures lexical variations
or semantic relationships better. See Appendix C
for examples and more discussion.
5.4 Run-time Efficiency
The main reason that we require a retrieval component for open-domain QA is to reduce the number
of candidate passages that the reader needs to consider, which is crucial for answering user’s questions in real-time. We profiled the passage retrieval
speed on a server with Intel Xeon CPU E5-2698 v4
@ 2.20GHz and 512GB memory. With the help of
FAISS in-memory index for real-valued vectors10
,
DPR can be made incredibly efficient, processing
995.0 questions per second, returning top 100 passages per question. In contrast, BM25/Lucene (implemented in Java, using file index) processes 23.7
questions per second per CPU thread.
On the other hand, the time required for building
an index for dense vectors is much longer. Computing dense embeddings on 21-million passages
is resource intensive, but can be easily parallelized,
taking roughly 8.8 hours on 8 GPUs. However,
building the FAISS index on 21-million vectors
on a single server takes 8.5 hours. In comparison,
building an inverted index using Lucene is much
cheaper and takes only about 30 minutes in total.
6 Experiments: Question Answering
In this section, we experiment with how different
passage retrievers affect the final QA accuracy.
6.1 End-to-end QA System
We implement an end-to-end question answering
system in which we can plug different retriever
systems directly. Besides the retriever, our QA system consists of a neural reader that outputs the
answer to the question. Given the top k retrieved
passages (up to 100 in our experiments), the reader
assigns a passage selection score to each passage.
In addition, it extracts an answer span from each
passage and assigns a span score. The best span
from the passage with the highest passage selection
10FAISS configuration: we used HNSW index type on CPU,
neighbors to store per node = 512, construction time search
depth = 200, search depth = 128.
score is chosen as the final answer. The passage
selection model serves as a reranker through crossattention between the question and the passage. Although cross-attention is not feasible for retrieving
relevant passages in a large corpus due to its nondecomposable nature, it has more capacity than the
dual-encoder model sim(q, p) as in Eq. (1). Applying it to selecting the passage from a small number
of retrieved candidates has been shown to work
well (Wang et al., 2019, 2018; Lin et al., 2018).
Specifically, let Pi ∈ R
L×h
(1 ≤ i ≤ k) be
a BERT (base, uncased in our experiments) representation for the i-th passage, where L is the
maximum length of the passage and h the hidden
dimension. The probabilities of a token being the
starting/ending positions of an answer span and a
passage being selected are defined as:
Pstart,i(s) = softmax
Piwstart
s
, (3)
Pend,i(t) = softmax
Piwend
t
, (4)
Pselected(i) = softmax
Pˆ|wselected
i
, (5)
where Pˆ = [P
[CLS]
1
, . . . , P
[CLS]
k
] ∈ R
h×k
and
wstart, wend, wselected ∈ R
h
are learnable vectors.
We compute a span score of the s-th to t-th words
from the i-th passage as Pstart,i(s) × Pend,i(t), and
a passage selection score of the i-th passage as
Pselected(i).
During training, we sample one positive and
m˜ −1 negative passages from the top 100 passages
returned by the retrieval system (BM25 or DPR)
for each question. m˜ is a hyper-parameter and we
use m˜ = 24 in all the experiments. The training objective is to maximize the marginal log-likelihood
of all the correct answer spans in the positive passage (the answer string may appear multiple times
in one passage), combined with the log-likelihood
of the positive passage being selected. We use the
batch size of 16 for large (NQ, TriviaQA, SQuAD)
and 4 for small (TREC, WQ) datasets, and tune k
on the development set. For experiments on small
datasets under the Multi setting, in which using
other datasets is allowed, we fine-tune the reader
trained on Natural Questions to the target dataset.
All experiments were done on eight 32GB GPUs.
6.2 Results
Table 4 summarizes our final end-to-end QA results, measured by exact match with the reference
answer after minor normalization as in (Chen et al.,
2017; Lee et al., 2019). From the table, we can
Training Model NQ TriviaQA WQ TREC SQuAD
Single BM25+BERT (Lee et al., 2019) 26.5 47.1 17.7 21.3 33.2
Single ORQA (Lee et al., 2019) 33.3 45.0 36.4 30.1 20.2
Single HardEM (Min et al., 2019a) 28.1 50.9 - - -
Single GraphRetriever (Min et al., 2019b) 34.5 56.0 36.4 - -
Single PathRetriever (Asai et al., 2020) 32.6 - - - 56.5
Single REALMWiki (Guu et al., 2020) 39.2 - 40.2 46.8 -
Single REALMNews (Guu et al., 2020) 40.4 - 40.7 42.9 -
Single
BM25 32.6 52.4 29.9 24.9 38.1
DPR 41.5 56.8 34.6 25.9 29.8
BM25+DPR 39.0 57.0 35.2 28.0 36.7
Multi DPR 41.5 56.8 42.4 49.4 24.1
BM25+DPR 38.8 57.9 41.1 50.6 35.8
Table 4: End-to-end QA (Exact Match) Accuracy. The first block of results are copied from their cited papers.
REALMWiki and REALMNews are the same model but pretrained on Wikipedia and CC-News, respectively. Single
and Multi denote that our Dense Passage Retriever (DPR) is trained using individual or combined training datasets
(all except SQuAD). For WQ and TREC in the Multi setting, we fine-tune the reader trained on NQ.
see that higher retriever accuracy typically leads to
better final QA results: in all cases except SQuAD,
answers extracted from the passages retrieved by
DPR are more likely to be correct, compared to
those from BM25. For large datasets like NQ and
TriviaQA, models trained using multiple datasets
(Multi) perform comparably to those trained using
the individual training set (Single). Conversely,
on smaller datasets like WQ and TREC, the multidataset setting has a clear advantage. Overall, our
DPR-based models outperform the previous stateof-the-art results on four out of the five datasets,
with 1% to 12% absolute differences in exact match
accuracy. It is interesting to contrast our results to
those of ORQA (Lee et al., 2019) and also the
concurrently developed approach, REALM (Guu
et al., 2020). While both methods include additional pretraining tasks and employ an expensive
end-to-end training regime, DPR manages to outperform them on both NQ and TriviaQA, simply
by focusing on learning a strong passage retrieval
model using pairs of questions and answers. The
additional pretraining tasks are likely more useful
only when the target training sets are small. Although the results of DPR on WQ and TREC in the
single-dataset setting are less competitive, adding
more question–answer pairs helps boost the performance, achieving the new state of the art.
To compare our pipeline training approach with
joint learning, we run an ablation on Natural Questions where the retriever and reader are jointly
trained, following Lee et al. (2019). This approach
obtains a score of 39.8 EM, which suggests that our
strategy of training a strong retriever and reader in
isolation can leverage effectively available supervision, while outperforming a comparable joint training approach with a simpler design (Appendix D).
One thing worth noticing is that our reader does
consider more passages compared to ORQA, although it is not completely clear how much more
time it takes for inference. While DPR processes
up to 100 passages for each question, the reader
is able to fit all of them into one batch on a single 32GB GPU, thus the latency remains almost
identical to the single passage case (around 20ms).
The exact impact on throughput is harder to measure: ORQA uses 2-3x longer passages compared
to DPR (288 word pieces compared to our 100
tokens) and the computational complexity is superlinear in passage length. We also note that we
found k = 50 to be optimal for NQ, and k = 10
leads to only marginal loss in exact match accuracy (40.8 vs. 41.5 EM on NQ), which should be
roughly comparable to ORQA’s 5-passage setup.
7 Related Work
Passage retrieval has been an important component for open-domain QA (Voorhees, 1999). It
not only effectively reduces the search space for
answer extraction, but also identifies the support
context for users to verify the answer. Strong sparse
vector space models like TF-IDF or BM25 have
been used as the standard method applied broadly
to various QA tasks (e.g., Chen et al., 2017; Yang
et al., 2019a,b; Nie et al., 2019; Min et al., 2019a;
Wolfson et al., 2020). Augmenting text-based retrieval with external structured information, such
as knowledge graph and Wikipedia hyperlinks, has
also been explored recently (Min et al., 2019b; Asai
et al., 2020).
The use of dense vector representations for retrieval has a long history since Latent Semantic
Analysis (Deerwester et al., 1990). Using labeled
pairs of queries and documents, discriminatively
trained dense encoders have become popular recently (Yih et al., 2011; Huang et al., 2013; Gillick
et al., 2019), with applications to cross-lingual
document retrieval, ad relevance prediction, Web
search and entity retrieval. Such approaches complement the sparse vector methods as they can potentially give high similarity scores to semantically
relevant text pairs, even without exact token matching. The dense representation alone, however, is
typically inferior to the sparse one. While not the
focus of this work, dense representations from pretrained models, along with cross-attention mechanisms, have also been shown effective in passage
or dialogue re-ranking tasks (Nogueira and Cho,
2019; Humeau et al., 2020). Finally, a concurrent
work (Khattab and Zaharia, 2020) demonstrates
the feasibility of full dense retrieval in IR tasks.
Instead of employing the dual-encoder framework,
they introduced a late-interaction operator on top
of the BERT encoders.
Dense retrieval for open-domain QA has been
explored by Das et al. (2019), who propose to retrieve relevant passages iteratively using reformulated question vectors. As an alternative approach
that skips passage retrieval, Seo et al. (2019) propose to encode candidate answer phrases as vectors
and directly retrieve the answers to the input questions efficiently. Using additional pretraining with
the objective that matches surrogates of questions
and relevant passages, Lee et al. (2019) jointly train
the question encoder and reader. Their approach
outperforms the BM25 plus reader paradigm on
multiple open-domain QA datasets in QA accuracy,
and is further extended by REALM (Guu et al.,
2020), which includes tuning the passage encoder
asynchronously by re-indexing the passages during training. The pretraining objective has also
recently been improved by Xiong et al. (2020b).
In contrast, our model provides a simple and yet
effective solution that shows stronger empirical performance, without relying on additional pretraining
or complex joint training schemes.
DPR has also been used as an important module in very recent work. For instance, extending
the idea of leveraging hard negatives, Xiong et al.
(2020a) use the retrieval model trained in the previous iteration to discover new negatives and construct a different set of examples in each training
iteration. Starting from our trained DPR model,
they show that the retrieval performance can be
further improved. Recent work (Izacard and Grave,
2020; Lewis et al., 2020b) have also shown that
DPR can be combined with generation models
such as BART (Lewis et al., 2020a) and T5 (Raffel et al., 2019), achieving good performance on
open-domain QA and other knowledge-intensive
tasks.
8 Conclusion
In this work, we demonstrated that dense retrieval
can outperform and potentially replace the traditional sparse retrieval component in open-domain
question answering. While a simple dual-encoder
approach can be made to work surprisingly well,
we showed that there are some critical ingredients
to training a dense retriever successfully. Moreover,
our empirical analysis and ablation studies indicate
that more complex model frameworks or similarity
functions do not necessarily provide additional values. As a result of improved retrieval performance,
we obtained new state-of-the-art results on multiple
open-domain question answering benchmarks.
Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their helpful
comments and suggestions.
References
Akari Asai, Kazuma Hashimoto, Hannaneh Hajishirzi,
Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2020. Learning to retrieve reasoning paths over Wikipedia graph
for question answering. In International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Petr Baudis and Jan ˇ Sediv ˇ y. 2015. Modeling of the `
question answering task in the yodaqa system. In International Conference of the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum for European Languages, pages 222–
228. Springer.
Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy
Liang. 2013. Semantic parsing on Freebase from
question-answer pairs. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Jane Bromley, Isabelle Guyon, Yann LeCun, Eduard
Sackinger, and Roopak Shah. 1994. Signature verifi- ¨
cation using a “Siamese” time delay neural network.
In NIPS, pages 737–744.
Chris Burges, Tal Shaked, Erin Renshaw, Ari Lazier,
Matt Deeds, Nicole Hamilton, and Greg Hullender.
2005. Learning to rank using gradient descent. In
Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on
Machine learning, pages 89–96.
Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine
Bordes. 2017. Reading Wikipedia to answer opendomain questions. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 1870–1879.
Rajarshi Das, Shehzaad Dhuliawala, Manzil Zaheer,
and Andrew McCallum. 2019. Multi-step retrieverreader interaction for scalable open-domain question
answering. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Scott Deerwester, Susan T Dumais, George W Furnas, Thomas K Landauer, and Richard Harshman.
1990. Indexing by latent semantic analysis. Journal of the American society for information science,
41(6):391–407.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In North American Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL).
David A Ferrucci. 2012. Introduction to “This is Watson”. IBM Journal of Research and Development,
56(3.4):1–1.
Daniel Gillick, Sayali Kulkarni, Larry Lansing,
Alessandro Presta, Jason Baldridge, Eugene Ie, and
Diego Garcia-Olano. 2019. Learning dense representations for entity retrieval. In Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL).
Ruiqi Guo, Sanjiv Kumar, Krzysztof Choromanski, and
David Simcha. 2016. Quantization based fast inner
product search. In Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 482–490.
Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. REALM:
Retrieval-augmented language model pre-training.
ArXiv, abs/2002.08909.
Matthew Henderson, Rami Al-Rfou, Brian Strope, Yunhsuan Sung, Laszl ´ o Luk ´ acs, Ruiqi Guo, Sanjiv Ku- ´
mar, Balint Miklos, and Ray Kurzweil. 2017. Efficient natural language response suggestion for smart
reply. ArXiv, abs/1705.00652.
Po-Sen Huang, Xiaodong He, Jianfeng Gao, Li Deng,
Alex Acero, and Larry Heck. 2013. Learning deep
structured semantic models for Web search using
clickthrough data. In ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management
(CIKM), pages 2333–2338.
Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
and Jason Weston. 2020. Poly-encoders: Architectures and pre-training strategies for fast and accurate
multi-sentence scoring. In International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Gautier Izacard and Edouard Grave. 2020. Leveraging
passage retrieval with generative models for open domain question answering. ArXiv, abs/2007.01282.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Herve J ´ egou. 2017. ´
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. ArXiv,
abs/1702.08734.
Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel Weld, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2017. TriviaQA: A large scale distantly supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehension. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 1601–1611.
Omar Khattab and Matei Zaharia. 2020. ColBERT:
Efficient and effective passage search via contextualized late interaction over BERT. In ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR), pages 39–48.
Brian Kulis. 2013. Metric learning: A survey. Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning, 5(4):287–
364.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti,
Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Matthew Kelcey,
Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina N. Toutanova,
Llion Jones, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew Dai, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural questions: a benchmark for question answering
research. Transactions of the Association of Computational Linguistics (TACL).
Kenton Lee, Ming-Wei Chang, and Kristina Toutanova.
2019. Latent retrieval for weakly supervised open
domain question answering. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 6086–6096.
Mike Lewis, Yinhan Liu, Naman Goyal, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Abdelrahman Mohamed, Omer
Levy, Veselin Stoyanov, and Luke Zettlemoyer.
2020a. BART: Denoising sequence-to-sequence pretraining for natural language generation, translation,
and comprehension. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 7871–7880.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandara Piktus,
Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Heinrich Kuttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, ¨
Tim Rocktaschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe ¨
Kiela. 2020b. Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Yankai Lin, Haozhe Ji, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun.
2018. Denoising distantly supervised open-domain
question answering. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages 1736–1745.
Sewon Min, Danqi Chen, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and
Luke Zettlemoyer. 2019a. A discrete hard EM approach for weakly supervised question answering.
In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Sewon Min, Danqi Chen, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2019b. Knowledge guided text retrieval and reading for open domain question answering. ArXiv, abs/1911.03868.
Dan Moldovan, Marius Pas¸ca, Sanda Harabagiu, and
Mihai Surdeanu. 2003. Performance issues and error analysis in an open-domain question answering
system. ACM Transactions on Information Systems
(TOIS), 21(2):133–154.
Stephen Mussmann and Stefano Ermon. 2016. Learning and inference via maximum inner product search.
In International Conference on Machine Learning
(ICML), pages 2587–2596.
Yixin Nie, Songhe Wang, and Mohit Bansal. 2019. Revealing the importance of semantic retrieval for machine reading at scale. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Rodrigo Nogueira and Kyunghyun Cho. 2019. Passage
re-ranking with BERT. ArXiv, abs/1901.04085.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2019. Exploring the limits
of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. ArXiv, abs/1910.10683.
Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and
Percy Liang. 2016. SQuAD: 100,000+ questions
for machine comprehension of text. In Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 2383–2392.
Parikshit Ram and Alexander G Gray. 2012. Maximum
inner-product search using cone trees. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining,
pages 931–939.
Adam Roberts, Colin Raffel, and Noam Shazeer. 2020.
How much knowledge can you pack into the parameters of a language model? ArXiv, abs/2002.08910.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. 2009. The
probabilistic relevance framework: BM25 and beyond. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval, 3(4):333–389.
Minjoon Seo, Jinhyuk Lee, Tom Kwiatkowski, Ankur
Parikh, Ali Farhadi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2019.
Real-time open-domain question answering with
dense-sparse phrase index. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
Anshumali Shrivastava and Ping Li. 2014. Asymmetric LSH (ALSH) for sublinear time maximum inner
product search (MIPS). In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), pages 2321–
2329.
Ellen M Voorhees. 1999. The TREC-8 question answering track report. In TREC, volume 99, pages
77–82.
Shuohang Wang, Mo Yu, Xiaoxiao Guo, Zhiguo Wang,
Tim Klinger, Wei Zhang, Shiyu Chang, Gerry
Tesauro, Bowen Zhou, and Jing Jiang. 2018. Rˆ3:
Reinforced ranker-reader for open-domain question
answering. In Conference on Artificial Intelligence
(AAAI).
Zhiguo Wang, Patrick Ng, Xiaofei Ma, Ramesh Nallapati, and Bing Xiang. 2019. Multi-passage BERT:
A globally normalized bert model for open-domain
question answering. In Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Tomer Wolfson, Mor Geva, Ankit Gupta, Matt Gardner, Yoav Goldberg, Daniel Deutch, and Jonathan
Berant. 2020. Break it down: A question understanding benchmark. Transactions of the Association of Computational Linguistics (TACL).
Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang,
Jialin Liu, Paul Bennett, Junaid Ahmed, and Arnold
Overwijk. 2020a. Approximate nearest neighbor
negative contrastive learning for dense text retrieval.
ArXiv, abs/2007.00808.
Wenhan Xiong, Hankang Wang, and William Yang
Wang. 2020b. Progressively pretrained dense corpus
index for open-domain question answering. ArXiv,
abs/2005.00038.
Wei Yang, Yuqing Xie, Aileen Lin, Xingyu Li, Luchen
Tan, Kun Xiong, Ming Li, and Jimmy Lin. 2019a.
End-to-end open-domain question answering with
bertserini. In North American Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), pages 72–77.
Wei Yang, Yuqing Xie, Luchen Tan, Kun Xiong, Ming
Li, and Jimmy Lin. 2019b. Data augmentation for
bert fine-tuning in open-domain question answering.
ArXiv, abs/1904.06652.
Wen-tau Yih, Kristina Toutanova, John C Platt, and
Christopher Meek. 2011. Learning discriminative
projections for text similarity measures. In Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL),
pages 247–256.
A Distant Supervision
When training our final DPR model using Natural
Questions, we use the passages in our collection
that best match the gold context as the positive
passages. As some QA datasets contain only the
question and answer pairs, it is thus interesting
to see when using the passages that contain the
answers as positives (i.e., the distant supervision
setting), whether there is a significant performance
degradation. Using the question and answer together as the query, we run Lucene-BM25 and pick
the top passage that contains the answer as the positive passage. Table 5 shows the performance of
DPR when trained using the original setting and
the distant supervision setting.
B Alternative Similarity Functions &
Triplet Loss
In addition to dot product (DP) and negative loglikelihood based on softmax (NLL), we also experiment with Euclidean distance (L2) and the triplet
loss. We negate L2 similarity scores before applying softmax and change signs of question-topositive and question-to-negative similarities when
applying the triplet loss on dot product scores. The
margin value of the triplet loss is set to 1. Table 6 summarizes the results. All these additional
experiments are conducted using the same hyperparameters tuned for the baseline (DP, NLL).
Note that the retrieval accuracy for our “baseline”
settings reported in Table 5 (Gold) and Table 6
(DP, NLL) is slightly better than those reported in
Table 3. This is due to a better hyper-parameter
setting used in these analysis experiments, which
is documented in our code release.
C Qualitative Analysis
Although DPR performs better than BM25 in general, the retrieved passages of these two retrievers
actually differ qualitatively. Methods like BM25
are sensitive to highly selective keywords and
phrases, but cannot capture lexical variations or semantic relationships well. In contrast, DPR excels
at semantic representation, but might lack sufficient
capacity to represent salient phrases which appear
rarely. Table 7 illustrates this phenomenon with
two examples. In the first example, the top scoring passage from BM25 is irrelevant, even though
keywords such as England and Ireland appear multiple times. In comparison, DPR is able to return
Top-1 Top-5 Top-20 Top-100
Gold 44.9 66.8 78.1 85.0
Dist. Sup. 43.9 65.3 77.1 84.4
Table 5: Retrieval accuracy on the development set of
Natural Questions, trained on passages that match the
gold context (Gold) or the top BM25 passage that contains the answer (Dist. Sup.).
Sim Loss Retrieval Accuracy
Top-1 Top-5 Top-20 Top-100
DP NLL 44.9 66.8 78.1 85.0
Triplet 41.6 65.0 77.2 84.5
L2 NLL 43.5 64.7 76.1 83.1
Triplet 42.2 66.0 78.1 84.9
Table 6: Retrieval Top-k accuracy on the development
set of Natural Questions using different similarity and
loss functions.
the correct answer, presumably by matching “body
of water” with semantic neighbors such as sea and
channel, even though no lexical overlap exists. The
second example is one where BM25 does better.
The salient phrase “Thoros of Myr” is critical, and
DPR is unable to capture it.
D Joint Training of Retriever and
Reader
We fix the passage encoder in our joint-training
scheme while allowing only the question encoder
to receive backpropagation signal from the combined (retriever + reader) loss function. This allows
us to leverage the HNSW-based FAISS index for
efficient low-latency retrieving, without reindexing
the passages during model updates. Our loss function largely follows ORQA’s approach, which uses
log probabilities of positive passages selected from
the retriever model, and correct spans and passages
selected from the reader model. Since the passage
encoder is fixed, we could use larger amount of
retrieved passages when calculating the retriever
loss. Specifically, we get top 100 passages for each
question in a mini-batch and use the method similar
to in-batch negative training: all retrieved passages’
vectors participate in the loss calculation for all
questions in a batch. Our training batch size is set
to 16, which effectively gives 1,600 passages per
question to calculate retriever loss. The reader still
uses 24 passages per question, which are selected
Question Passage received by BM25 Passage retrieved by DPR
What is the body of water
between England and Ireland?
Title:British Cycling Title: Irish Sea
. . .England is not recognised as a region by the UCI, and
there is no English cycling team outside the Commonwealth
Games. For those occasions, British Cycling selects and supports the England team. Cycling is represented on the Isle
of Man by the Isle of Man Cycling Association. Cycling in
Northern Ireland is organised under Cycling Ulster, part of
the all-Ireland governing body Cycling Ireland. Until 2006,
a rival governing body existed, . . .
. . . Annual traffic between Great Britain and Ireland amounts
to over 12 million passengers and of traded goods. The Irish
Sea is connected to the North Atlantic at both its northern
and southern ends. To the north, the connection is through
the North Channel between Scotland and Northern Ireland
and the Malin Sea. The southern end is linked to the Atlantic
through the St George’s Channel between Ireland and Pembrokeshire, and the Celtic Sea. . . .
Who plays Thoros of Myr in
Game of Thrones?
Title: No One (Game of Thrones) Title: Pal Sverre Hagen ˚
. . . He may be ”no one,” but there’s still enough of a person
left in him to respect, and admire who this girl is and what
she’s become. Arya finally tells us something that we’ve kind
of known all along, that she’s not no one, she’s Arya Stark
of Winterfell.” ”No One” saw the reintroduction of Richard
Dormer and Paul Kaye, who portrayed Beric Dondarrion and
Thoros of Myr, respectively, in the third season, . . .
Pal Sverre Valheim Hagen (born 6 November 1980) is a Nor- ˚
wegian stage and screen actor. He appeared in the Norwegian film ”Max Manus” and played Thor Heyerdahl in the
Oscar-nominated 2012 film ”Kon-Tiki”. Pl Hagen was born
in Stavanger, Norway, the son of Roar Hagen, a Norwegian
cartoonist who has long been associated with Norways largest ´
daily, ”VG”. He lived in Jtten, a neighborhood in the city of
Stavanger in south-western Norway. . . .
Table 7: Examples of passages returned from BM25 and DPR. Correct answers are written in blue and the content
words in the question are written in bold.
from the top 5 positive and top 30 negative passages
(from the set of top 100 passages retrieved from
the same question). The question encoder’s initial
state is taken from a DPR model previously trained
on the NQ dataset. The reader’s initial state is a
BERT-base model. In terms of the end-to-end QA
results, our joint-training scheme does not provide
better results compared to the usual retriever/reader
training pipeline, resulting in the same 39.8 exact
match score on NQ dev as in our regular reader
model training.
Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych
Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab (UKP-TUDA)
Department of Computer Science, Technische Universit¨at Darmstadt
www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract
arXiv:1908.10084v1  [cs.CL]  27 Aug 2019
BERT(Devlin et al., 2018) and RoBERTa (Liu
et al., 2019) has set a new state-of-the-art
performance on sentence-pair regression tasks
like semantic textual similarity (STS). How
ever, it requires that both sentences are fed
into the network, which causes a massive com
putational overhead: Finding the most sim
ilar pair in a collection of 10,000 sentences
requires about 50 million inference computa
tions (~65 hours) with BERT. Theconstruction
of BERTmakes it unsuitable for semantic sim
ilarity search as well as for unsupervised tasks
like clustering.
In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modification of the pretrained
BERTnetwork that use siamese and triplet net
work structures to derive semantically mean
ingful sentence embeddings that can be com
pared using cosine-similarity. This reduces the
effort for finding the most similar pair from 65
hours with BERT / RoBERTa to about 5 sec
onds with SBERT, while maintaining the ac
curacy from BERT.
We evaluate SBERT and SRoBERTa on com
mon STS tasks and transfer learning tasks,
where it outperforms other state-of-the-art
sentence embeddings methods.1
1 Introduction
In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modification of the BERT network us
ing siamese and triplet networks that is able to
derive semantically meaningful sentence embed
dings2. This enables BERT to be used for certain
new tasks, which up-to-now were not applicable
for BERT. These tasks include large-scale seman
1Code available: https://github.com/UKPLab/
sentence-transformers
2With semantically meaningful we mean that semantically
similar sentences are close in vector space.
tic similarity comparison, clustering, and informa
tion retrieval via semantic search.
BERT set new state-of-the-art performance on
various sentence classification and sentence-pair
regression tasks. BERT uses a cross-encoder: Two
sentences are passed to the transformer network
and the target value is predicted. However, this
setup is unsuitable for various pair regression tasks
due to too many possible combinations. Finding
in a collection of n = 10000 sentences the pair
with the highest similarity requires with BERT
n·(n−1)/2 = 49995000inferencecomputations.
On a modern V100 GPU, this requires about 65
hours. Similar, finding which of the over 40 mil
lion existent questions of Quora is the most similar
for a new question could be modeled as a pair-wise
comparison with BERT, however, answering a sin
gle query would require over 50 hours.
Acommon method to address clustering and se
mantic search is to map each sentence to a vec
tor space such that semantically similar sentences
are close. Researchers have started to input indi
vidual sentences into BERT and to derive fixed
size sentence embeddings. The most commonly
used approach is to average the BERT output layer
(known as BERTembeddings)orbyusingtheout
put of the first token (the [CLS] token). As we
will show, this common practice yields rather bad
sentence embeddings, often worse than averaging
GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al., 2014).
To alleviate this issue, we developed SBERT.
The siamese network architecture enables that
fixed-sized vectors for input sentences can be de
rived. Using a similarity measure like cosine
similarity or Manhatten / Euclidean distance, se
mantically similar sentences can be found. These
similarity measures can be performed extremely
efficient on modern hardware, allowing SBERT
to be used for semantic similarity search as well
as for clustering. The complexity for finding the
most similar sentence pair in a collection of 10,000
sentences is reduced from 65 hours with BERT to
the computation of 10,000 sentence embeddings
(~5 seconds with SBERT) and computing cosine
similarity (~0.01 seconds). By using optimized
index structures, finding the most similar Quora
question can be reduced from 50 hours to a few
milliseconds (Johnson et al., 2017).
We fine-tune SBERT on NLI data, which cre
ates sentence embeddings that significantly out
perform other state-of-the-art sentence embedding
methods like InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017) and
Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer et al., 2018). On
seven Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks,
SBERT achieves an improvement of 11.7 points
compared to InferSent and 5.5 points compared to
Universal Sentence Encoder. On SentEval (Con
neau and Kiela, 2018), an evaluation toolkit for
sentence embeddings, we achieve an improvement
of 2.1 and 2.6 points, respectively.
SBERT can be adapted to a specific task. It
sets new state-of-the-art performance on a chal
lenging argument similarity dataset (Misra et al.,
2016) and on a triplet dataset to distinguish sen
tences from different sections of a Wikipedia arti
cle (Dor et al., 2018).
The paper is structured in the following way:
Section 3 presents SBERT, section 4 evaluates
SBERT on common STS tasks and on the chal
lenging Argument Facet Similarity (AFS) corpus
(Misra et al., 2016). Section 5 evaluates SBERT
on SentEval. In section 6, we perform an ablation
study to test some design aspect of SBERT. In sec
tion 7, we compare the computational efficiency of
SBERT sentence embeddings in contrast to other
state-of-the-art sentence embedding methods.
2 Related Work
We first introduce BERT, then, we discuss state
of-the-art sentence embedding methods.
BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) is a pre-trained
transformer network (Vaswani et al., 2017), which
set for various NLP tasks new state-of-the-art re
sults, including question answering, sentence clas
sification, and sentence-pair regression. The input
for BERT for sentence-pair regression consists of
the two sentences, separated by a special [SEP]
token. Multi-head attention over 12 (base-model)
or 24 layers (large-model) is applied and the out
put is passed to a simple regression function to de
rive the final label. Using this setup, BERT set a
new state-of-the-art performance on the Semantic
Textual Semilarity (STS) benchmark (Cer et al.,
2017). RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) showed, that
the performance of BERT can further improved by
small adaptations to the pre-training process. We
also tested XLNet (Yang et al., 2019), but it led in
general to worse results than BERT.
A large disadvantage of the BERT network
structure is that no independent sentence embed
dings are computed, which makes it difficult to de
rive sentence embeddings from BERT. To bypass
this limitations, researchers passed single sen
tences through BERT and then derive a fixed sized
vector by either averaging the outputs (similar to
average word embeddings) or by using the output
of the special CLS token (for example: May et al.
(2019); Zhang et al. (2019); Qiao et al. (2019)).
These two options are also provided by the popu
lar bert-as-a-service-repository3. Up to our knowl
edge, there is so far no evaluation if these methods
lead to useful sentence embeddings.
Sentence embeddings are a well studied area
with dozens of proposed methods. Skip-Thought
(Kiros et al., 2015) trains an encoder-decoder ar
chitecture to predict the surrounding sentences.
InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017) uses labeled
data of the Stanford Natural Language Inference
dataset (Bowman et al., 2015) and the Multi
Genre NLI dataset (Williams et al., 2018) to train
a siamese BiLSTM network with max-pooling
over the output. Conneau et al. showed, that
InferSent consistently outperforms unsupervised
methods like SkipThought. Universal Sentence
Encoder (Cer et al., 2018) trains a transformer
network and augments unsupervised learning with
training on SNLI. Hill et al. (2016) showed, that
the task on which sentence embeddings are trained
significantly impacts their quality. Previous work
(Conneau et al., 2017; Cer et al., 2018) found that
the SNLI datasets are suitable for training sen
tence embeddings. Yang et al. (2018) presented
a method to train on conversations from Reddit
using siamese DAN and siamese transformer net
works, which yielded good results on the STS
benchmark dataset.
Humeau et al. (2019) addresses the run-time
overhead of the cross-encoder from BERT and
present a method (poly-encoders) to compute
a score between m context vectors and pre
3https://github.com/hanxiao/
bert-as-service/
-1 … 1 
Softmax classifier 
(u, v, |u-v|) 
u v 
pooling 
pooling 
BERT BERT 
Sentence A Sentence B 
Figure 1: SBERT architecture with classification ob
jective function, e.g., for fine-tuning on SNLI dataset.
The two BERT networks have tied weights (siamese
network structure).
computed candidate embeddings using attention.
This idea works for finding the highest scoring
sentence in a larger collection. However, poly
encoders have the drawback that the score function
is not symmetric and the computational overhead
is too large for use-cases like clustering, which
would require O(n2) score computations.
Previous neural sentence embedding methods
started the training from a random initialization.
In this publication, we use the pre-trained BERT
and RoBERTa network and only fine-tune it to
yield useful sentence embeddings. This reduces
significantly the needed training time: SBERT can
be tuned in less than 20 minutes, while yielding
better results than comparable sentence embed
ding methods.
3 Model
SBERT adds a pooling operation to the output
of BERT / RoBERTa to derive a fixed sized sen
tence embedding. We experiment with three pool
ing strategies: Using the output of the CLS-token,
computing the mean of all output vectors (MEAN
strategy), and computing a max-over-time of the
output vectors (MAX-strategy). The default config
uration is MEAN.
In order to fine-tune BERT / RoBERTa, we cre
ate siamese and triplet networks (Schroff et al.,
2015) to update the weights such that the produced
sentence embeddings are semantically meaningful
and can be compared with cosine-similarity.
The network structure depends on the available
cosine-sim(u, v) 
u v 
pooling 
pooling 
BERT BERT 
Sentence A Sentence B 
Figure 2: SBERT architecture at inference, for exam
ple, to compute similarity scores. This architecture is
also used with the regression objective function.
training data. We experiment with the following
structures and objective functions.
Classification Objective Function. We con
catenate the sentence embeddings u and v with
the element-wise difference |u−v| and multiply it
with the trainable weight Wt ∈ R3n× k:
o = softmax(Wt(u,v,|u − v|))
where n is the dimension of the sentence em
beddings and k the number of labels. We optimize
cross-entropy loss. This structure is depicted in
Figure 1.
Regression Objective Function. The cosine
similarity between the two sentence embeddings
u and v is computed (Figure 2). We use mean
squared-error loss as the objective function.
Triplet Objective Function. Given an anchor
sentence a, a positive sentence p, and a negative
sentence n, triplet loss tunes the network such that
the distance between a and p is smaller than the
distance between a and n. Mathematically, we
minimize the following loss function:
max(||sa − sp|| − ||sa − sn|| + ,0)
with sx the sentence embedding for a/n/p, || · ||
a distance metric and margin . Margin ensures
that sp is at least closer to sa than sn. As metric
we use Euclidean distance and we set = 1 in our
experiments.
3.1 Training Details
We train SBERT on the combination of the SNLI
(Bowman et al., 2015) and the Multi-Genre NLI
Model STS12 STS13 STS14 STS15 STS16 STSb SICK-R Avg.
Avg. GloVe embeddings 55.14 70.66 59.73 68.25 63.66 58.02 53.76
Avg.BERTembeddings 38.78 57.98 57.98 63.15 61.06 46.35 58.40
BERT CLS-vector 20.16 30.01 20.09 36.88 38.08 16.50 42.63
InferSent- Glove 52.86 66.75 62.15 72.77 66.87 68.03 65.65
Universal Sentence Encoder 64.49 67.80 64.61 76.83 73.18 74.92 76.69
61.32
54.81
29.19
65.01
71.22
SBERT-NLI-base 70.97 76.53 73.19 79.09 74.30 77.03 72.91
SBERT-NLI-large 72.27 78.46 74.90 80.99 76.25 79.23 73.75
74.89
76.55
SRoBERTa-NLI-base 71.54 72.49 70.80 78.74 73.69 77.77 74.46
SRoBERTa-NLI-large 74.53 77.00 73.18 81.85 76.82 79.10 74.29
74.21
76.68
Table 1: Spearman rank correlation ρ between the cosine similarity of sentence representations and the gold labels
for various Textual Similarity (STS) tasks. Performance is reported by convention as ρ × 100. STS12-STS16:
SemEval 2012-2016, STSb: STSbenchmark, SICK-R: SICK relatedness dataset.
(Williams et al., 2018) dataset. The SNLI is a col
lection of 570,000 sentence pairs annotated with
the labels contradiction, eintailment, and neu
tral. MultiNLI contains 430,000 sentence pairs
and covers a range of genres of spoken and written
text. We fine-tune SBERT with a 3-way softmax
classifier objective function for one epoch. We
used a batch-size of 16, Adam optimizer with
learning rate 2e−5, and a linear learning rate
warm-up over 10% of the training data. Our de
fault pooling strategy is MEAN.
4 Evaluation- Semantic Textual
Similarity
We evaluate the performance of SBERT for com
mon Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks.
State-of-the-art methods often learn a (complex)
regression function that maps sentence embed
dings to a similarity score. However, these regres
sion functions work pair-wise and due to the com
binatorial explosion those are often not scalable if
the collection of sentences reaches a certain size.
Instead, we always use cosine-similarity to com
pare the similarity between two sentence embed
dings. We ran our experiments also with nega
tive Manhatten and negative Euclidean distances
as similarity measures, but the results for all ap
proaches remained roughly the same.
4.1 Unsupervised STS
We evaluate the performance of SBERT for STS
without using any STS specific training data. We
use the STS tasks 2012- 2016 (Agirre et al., 2012,
2013, 2014, 2015, 2016), the STS benchmark (Cer
et al., 2017), and the SICK-Relatedness dataset
(Marelli et al., 2014). These datasets provide la
bels between 0 and 5 on the semantic relatedness
of sentence pairs. We showed in (Reimers et al.,
2016) that Pearson correlation is badly suited for
STS. Instead, we compute the Spearman’s rank
correlation between the cosine-similarity of the
sentence embeddings and the gold labels. The
setup for the other sentence embedding methods
is equivalent, the similarity is computed by cosine
similarity. The results are depicted in Table 1.
The results shows that directly using the output
of BERT leads to rather poor performances. Av
eraging the BERT embeddings achieves an aver
age correlation of only 54.81, and using the CLS
token output only achieves an average correlation
of 29.19. Both are worse than computing average
GloVe embeddings.
Using the described siamese network structure
and fine-tuning mechanism substantially improves
the correlation, outperforming both InferSent and
Universal Sentence Encoder substantially. The
only dataset where SBERT performs worse than
Universal Sentence Encoder is SICK-R. Universal
Sentence Encoder was trained on various datasets,
including news, question-answer pages and dis
cussion forums, which appears to be more suitable
to the data of SICK-R. In contrast, SBERT was
pre-trained only on Wikipedia (via BERT) and on
NLI data.
While RoBERTa was able to improve the per
formance for several supervised tasks, we only
observe minor difference between SBERT and
SRoBERTa for generating sentence embeddings.
4.2 Supervised STS
The STS benchmark(STSb)(Ceretal., 2017) pro
vides is a popular dataset to evaluate supervised
STS systems. The data includes 8,628 sentence
pairs from the three categories captions, news, and
forums. It is divided into train (5,749), dev (1,500)
and test (1,379). BERT set a new state-of-the-art
performance on this dataset by passing both sen
tences to the network and using a simple regres
sion method for the output.
Model Spearman
Not trained for STS
Avg. GloVe embeddings 58.02
Avg.BERTembeddings 46.35
InferSent- GloVe 68.03
Universal Sentence Encoder 74.92
SBERT-NLI-base 77.03
SBERT-NLI-large 79.23
Trained on STS benchmark dataset
BERT-STSb-base 84.30±0.76
SBERT-STSb-base 84.67±0.19
SRoBERTa-STSb-base 84.92 ± 0.34
BERT-STSb-large 85.64±0.81
SBERT-STSb-large 84.45±0.43
SRoBERTa-STSb-large 85.02 ± 0.76
Trained on NLI data + STS benchmark data
BERT-NLI-STSb-base 88.33 ± 0.19
SBERT-NLI-STSb-base 85.35 ± 0.17
SRoBERTa-NLI-STSb-base 84.79 ± 0.38
BERT-NLI-STSb-large 88.77 ± 0.46
SBERT-NLI-STSb-large 86.10 ± 0.13
SRoBERTa-NLI-STSb-large 86.15 ± 0.35
Table 2: Evaluation on the STS benchmark test set.
BERT systems were trained with 10 random seeds and
4 epochs. SBERT was fine-tuned on the STSb dataset,
SBERT-NLI was pretrained on the NLI datasets, then
fine-tuned on the STSb dataset.
We use the training set to fine-tune SBERT us
ing the regression objective function. At predic
tion time, we compute the cosine-similarity be
tween the sentence embeddings. All systems are
trained with 10 random seeds to counter variances
(Reimers and Gurevych, 2018).
The results are depicted in Table 2. We ex
perimented with two setups: Only training on
STSb, and first training on NLI, then training on
STSb. We observe that the later strategy leads to a
slight improvement of 1-2 points. This two-step
approach had an especially large impact for the
BERT cross-encoder, which improved the perfor
mance by 3-4 points. We do not observe a signifi
cant difference between BERT and RoBERTa.
4.3 Argument Facet Similarity
We evaluate SBERT on the Argument Facet Sim
ilarity (AFS) corpus by Misra et al. (2016). The
AFS corpus annotated 6,000 sentential argument
pairs from social media dialogs on three contro
versial topics: gun control, gay marriage, and
death penalty. The data was annotated on a scale
from 0 (“different topic”) to 5 (“completely equiv
alent”). The similarity notion in the AFS corpus
is fairly different to the similarity notion in the
STS datasets from SemEval. STS data is usually
descriptive, while AFS data are argumentative ex
cerpts from dialogs. To be considered similar, ar
guments must not only make similar claims, but
also provide a similar reasoning. Further, the lex
ical gap between the sentences in AFS is much
larger. Hence, simple unsupervised methods as
well as state-of-the-art STS systems perform badly
on this dataset (Reimers et al., 2019).
We evaluate SBERT on this dataset in two sce
narios: 1) As proposed by Misra et al., we evaluate
SBERT using 10-fold cross-validation. A draw
back of this evaluation setup is that it is not clear
how well approaches generalize to different top
ics. Hence, 2) we evaluate SBERT in a cross-topic
setup. Two topics serve for training and the ap
proach is evaluated on the left-out topic. We repeat
this for all three topics and average the results.
SBERT is fine-tuned using the Regression Ob
jective Function. The similarity score is computed
using cosine-similarity based on the sentence em
beddings. We also provide the Pearson correla
tion r to make the results comparable to Misra et
al. However, we showed (Reimers et al., 2016)
that Pearson correlation has some serious draw
backs and should be avoided for comparing STS
systems. The results are depicted in Table 3.
Unsupervised methods like tf-idf, average
GloVe embeddings or InferSent perform rather
badly on this dataset with low scores. Training
SBERT in the 10-fold cross-validation setup gives
a performance that is nearly on-par with BERT.
However, in the cross-topic evaluation, we ob
serve a performance drop of SBERT by about 7
points Spearman correlation. To be considered
similar, arguments should address the same claims
and provide the same reasoning. BERT is able to
use attention to compare directly both sentences
(e.g. word-by-word comparison), while SBERT
must map individual sentences from an unseen
topic to a vector space such that arguments with
similar claims and reasons are close. This is a
much more challenging task, which appears to re
quire more than just two topics for training to work
on-par with BERT.
4.4 Wikipedia Sections Distinction
Dor et al. (2018) use Wikipedia to create a the
matically fine-grained train, dev and test set for
sentence embeddings methods. Wikipedia arti
cles are separated into distinct sections focusing
on certain aspects. Dor et al. assume that sen
Model r ρ
Model Accuracy
Unsupervised methods
tf-idf 46.77 42.95
Avg.GloVe embeddings 32.40 34.00
InferSent- GloVe 27.08 26.63
10-fold Cross-Validation
SVR(Misra et al., 2016) 63.33
BERT-AFS-base 77.20 74.84
SBERT-AFS-base 76.57 74.13
BERT-AFS-large 78.68 76.38
SBERT-AFS-large 77.85 75.93
Cross-Topic Evaluation
BERT-AFS-base 58.49 57.23
SBERT-AFS-base 52.34 50.65
BERT-AFS-large 62.02 60.34
SBERT-AFS-large 53.82 53.10
Table 3: Average Pearson correlation r and average
Spearman’s rank correlation ρ on the Argument Facet
Similarity (AFS) corpus (Misra et al., 2016). Misra et
al. proposes 10-fold cross-validation. We additionally
evaluate in a cross-topic scenario: Methods are trained
on two topics, and are evaluated on the third topic.
tences in the same section are thematically closer
than sentences in different sections. They use this
to create a large dataset of weakly labeled sen
tence triplets: The anchor and the positive exam
ple come from the same section, while the neg
ative example comes from a different section of
the same article. For example, from the Alice
Arnold article: Anchor: Arnold joined the BBC
Radio Drama Company in 1988., positive: Arnold
gained media attention in May 2012., negative:
Balding and Arnold are keen amateur golfers.
We use the dataset from Dor et al. We use the
Triplet Objective, train SBERT for one epoch on
the about 1.8 Million training triplets and evaluate
it on the 222,957 test triplets. Test triplets are from
a distinct set of Wikipedia articles. As evaluation
metric, we use accuracy: Is the positive example
closer to the anchor than the negative example?
Results are presented in Table 4. Dor et al. fine
tuned a BiLSTM architecture with triplet loss to
derive sentence embeddings for this dataset. As
the table shows, SBERT clearly outperforms the
BiLSTM approach by Dor et al.
5 Evaluation- SentEval
SentEval (Conneau and Kiela, 2018) is a popular
toolkit to evaluate the quality of sentence embed
dings. Sentence embeddings are used as features
for a logistic regression classifier. The logistic re
gression classifier is trained on various tasks in a
10-fold cross-validation setup and the prediction
accuracy is computed for the test-fold.
mean-vectors 0.65
skip-thoughts-CS 0.62
Dor etal. 0.74
SBERT-WikiSec-base 0.8042
SBERT-WikiSec-large 0.8078
SRoBERTa-WikiSec-base 0.7945
SRoBERTa-WikiSec-large 0.7973
Table 4: Evaluation on the Wikipedia section triplets
dataset (Dor et al., 2018). SBERT trained with triplet
loss for one epoch.
The purpose of SBERT sentence embeddings
are not to be used for transfer learning for other
tasks. Here, we think fine-tuning BERT as de
scribed by Devlin et al. (2018) for new tasks is
the more suitable method, as it updates all layers
of the BERT network. However, SentEval can still
give an impression on the quality of our sentence
embeddings for various tasks.
We compare the SBERT sentence embeddings
to other sentence embeddings methods on the fol
lowing seven SentEval transfer tasks:
• MR:Sentiment prediction for movie reviews
snippets on a five start scale (Pang and Lee,
2005).
• CR: Sentiment prediction of customer prod
uct reviews (Hu and Liu, 2004).
• SUBJ: Subjectivity prediction of sentences
from movie reviews and plot summaries
(Pang and Lee, 2004).
• MPQA: Phrase level opinion polarity classi
fication from newswire (Wiebe et al., 2005).
• SST: Stanford Sentiment Treebank with bi
nary labels (Socher et al., 2013).
• TREC: Fine grained question-type classifi
cation from TREC (Li and Roth, 2002).
• MRPC:Microsoft Research Paraphrase Cor
pus from parallel news sources (Dolan et al.,
2004).
The results can be found in Table 5. SBERT
is able to achieve the best performance in 5 out
of 7 tasks. The average performance increases
by about 2 percentage points compared to In
ferSent as well as the Universal Sentence Encoder.
Even though transfer learning is not the purpose of
SBERT, it outperforms other state-of-the-art sen
tence embeddings methods on this task.
Model MR CR SUBJ MPQA SST TREC MRPC Avg.
Avg. GloVe embeddings 77.25 78.30 91.17 87.85 80.18 83.0 72.87
Avg.fast-text embeddings 77.96 79.23 91.68 87.81 82.15 83.6 74.49
Avg.BERTembeddings 78.66 86.25 94.37 88.66 84.40 92.8 69.45
BERT CLS-vector 78.68 84.85 94.21 88.23 84.13 91.4 71.13
InferSent- GloVe 81.57 86.54 92.50 90.38 84.18 88.2 75.77
Universal Sentence Encoder 80.09 85.19 93.98 86.70 86.38 93.2 70.14
81.52
82.42
84.94
84.66
85.59
85.10
SBERT-NLI-base 83.64 89.43 94.39 89.86 88.96 89.6 76.00
SBERT-NLI-large 84.88 90.07 94.52 90.33 90.66 87.4 75.94
87.41
87.69
Table 5: Evaluation of SBERT sentence embeddings using the SentEval toolkit. SentEval evaluates sentence
embeddings on different sentence classification tasks by training a logistic regression classifier using the sentence
embeddings as features. Scores are based on a 10-fold cross-validation.
It appears that the sentence embeddings from
SBERT capture well sentiment information: We
observe large improvements for all sentiment tasks
(MR, CR, and SST) from SentEval in comparison
to InferSent and Universal Sentence Encoder.
The only dataset where SBERT is significantly
worse than Universal Sentence Encoder is the
TREC dataset. Universal Sentence Encoder was
pre-trained on question-answering data, which ap
pears to be beneficial for the question-type classi
fication task of the TREC dataset.
Average BERT embeddings or using the CLS
token output from a BERT network achieved bad
results for various STS tasks (Table 1), worse than
average GloVe embeddings. However, for Sent
Eval, average BERT embeddings and the BERT
CLS-token output achieves decent results (Ta
ble 5), outperforming average GloVe embeddings.
The reason for this are the different setups. For
the STS tasks, we used cosine-similarity to es
timate the similarities between sentence embed
dings.
Cosine-similarity treats all dimensions
equally. In contrast, SentEval fits a logistic regres
sion classifier to the sentence embeddings. This
allows that certain dimensions can have higher or
lower impact on the classification result.
We conclude that average BERT embeddings /
CLS-token output from BERT return sentence em
beddings that are infeasible to be used with cosine
similarity or with Manhatten / Euclidean distance.
For transfer learning, they yield slightly worse
results than InferSent or Universal Sentence En
coder. However, using the described fine-tuning
setup with a siamese network structure on NLI
datasets yields sentence embeddings that achieve
a new state-of-the-art for the SentEval toolkit.
6 Ablation Study
We have demonstrated strong empirical results for
the quality of SBERT sentence embeddings. In
this section, we perform an ablation study of dif
ferent aspects of SBERT in order to get a better
understanding of their relative importance.
We evaluated different pooling strategies
(MEAN, MAX, and CLS). For the classification
objective function, we evaluate different concate
nation methods. For each possible configuration,
we train SBERT with 10 different random seeds
and average the performances.
The objective function (classification vs. regres
sion) depends on the annotated dataset. For the
classification objective function, we train SBERT
base on the SNLI and the Multi-NLI dataset. For
the regression objective function, we train on the
training set of the STS benchmark dataset. Perfor
mances are measured on the development split of
the STS benchmark dataset. Results are shown in
Table 6.
NLI STSb
Pooling Strategy
MEAN 80.78 87.44
MAX 79.07 69.92
CLS 79.80 86.62
Concatenation
(u, v) 66.04
(|u−v|) 69.78
(u∗v) 70.54
(|u−v|,u∗v) 78.37
(u,v,u∗v) 77.44
(u,v,|u−v|) 80.78
(u,v,|u−v|,u∗v) 80.44
Table 6: SBERT trained on NLI data with the clas
sification objective function, on the STS benchmark
(STSb) with the regression objective function. Con
figurations are evaluated on the development set of the
STSb using cosine-similarity and Spearman’s rank cor
relation. For the concatenation methods, we only report
scores with MEAN pooling strategy.
When trained with the classification objective
function on NLI data, the pooling strategy has a
rather minor impact. The impact of the concate
nation mode is much larger. InferSent (Conneau
et al., 2017) and Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer
et al., 2018) both use (u,v,|u − v|,u ∗v) as input
for a softmax classifier. However, in our architec
ture, adding the element-wise u ∗ v decreased the
performance.
The most important component is the element
wise difference |u − v|. Note, that the concate
nation mode is only relevant for training the soft
max classifier. At inference, when predicting sim
ilarities for the STS benchmark dataset, only the
sentence embeddings u and v are used in combi
nation with cosine-similarity. The element-wise
difference measures the distance between the di
mensions of the two sentence embeddings, ensur
ing that similar pairs are closer and dissimilar pairs
are further apart.
When trained with the regression objective
function, we observe that the pooling strategy has
a large impact. There, the MAX strategy perform
significantly worse than MEAN or CLS-token strat
egy. This is in contrast to (Conneau et al., 2017),
who found it beneficial for the BiLSTM-layer of
InferSent to use MAX instead of MEAN pooling.
7 Computational Efficiency
Sentence embeddings need potentially be com
puted for Millions of sentences, hence, a high
computation speed is desired. In this section, we
compare SBERT to average GloVe embeddings,
InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017), and Universal
Sentence Encoder (Cer et al., 2018).
For our comparison we use the sentences from
the STS benchmark (Cer et al., 2017). We com
pute average GloVe embeddings using a sim
ple for-loop with python dictionary lookups and
NumPy. InferSent4 is based on PyTorch. For
Universal Sentence Encoder, we use the Tensor
Flow Hub version5, which is based on Tensor
Flow. SBERT is based on PyTorch. For improved
computation of sentence embeddings, we imple
mented a smart batching strategy: Sentences with
similar lengths are grouped together and are only
padded to the longest element in a mini-batch.
This drastically reduces computational overhead
from padding tokens.
Performances were measured on a server with
Intel i7-5820K CPU @ 3.30GHz, Nvidia Tesla
4https://github.com/facebookresearch/
InferSent
5https://tfhub.dev/google/
universal-sentence-encoder-large/3
V100 GPU, CUDA 9.2 and cuDNN. The results
are depicted in Table 7.
Model CPU GPU
Avg. GloVe embeddings 6469
InferSent 137 1876
Universal Sentence Encoder 67 1318
SBERT-base 44 1378
SBERT-base- smart batching 83 2042
Table 7: Computation speed (sentences per second) of
sentence embedding methods. Higher is better.
On CPU, InferSent is about 65% faster than
SBERT. This is due to the much simpler net
work architecture. InferSent uses a single Bi
LSTM layer, while BERT uses 12 stacked trans
former layers. However, an advantage of trans
former networks is the computational efficiency
on GPUs. There, SBERT with smart batching
is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55%
faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. Smart
batching achieves a speed-up of 89% on CPU and
48%onGPU.AverageGloVeembeddingsisobvi
ously by a large margin the fastest method to com
pute sentence embeddings.
8 Conclusion
We showed that BERT out-of-the-box maps sen
tences to a vector space that is rather unsuit
able to be used with common similarity measures
like cosine-similarity. The performance for seven
STS tasks was below the performance of average
GloVe embeddings.
To overcome this shortcoming, we presented
Sentence-BERT (SBERT). SBERT fine-tunes
BERT in a siamese / triplet network architec
ture. We evaluated the quality on various com
mon benchmarks, where it could achieve a sig
nificant improvement over state-of-the-art sen
tence embeddings methods. Replacing BERT with
RoBERTa did not yield a significant improvement
in our experiments.
SBERT is computationally efficient. On a GPU,
it is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55%
faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. SBERT
can be used for tasks which are computationally
not feasible to be modeled with BERT. For exam
ple, clustering of 10,000 sentences with hierarchi
cal clustering requires with BERT about 65 hours,
as around 50 Million sentence combinations must
be computed. With SBERT, we were able to re
duce the effort to about 5 seconds.
Acknowledgments
This work has been supported by the German
Research Foundation through the German-Israeli
Project Cooperation (DIP, grant DA 1600/1-1 and
grant GU 798/17-1). It has been co-funded by the
German Federal Ministry of Education and Re
search (BMBF) under the promotional references
03VP02540 (ArgumenText).
References
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel
Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Inigo Lopez-Gazpio, Montse Maritxalar, Rada
Mihalcea, German Rigau, Larraitz Uria, and Janyce
Wiebe. 2015. SemEval-2015 Task 2: Semantic Tex
tual Similarity, English, Spanish and Pilot on Inter
pretability. In Proceedings of the 9th International
Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2015),
pages 252–263, Denver, Colorado. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel
Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Rada Mihalcea, German Rigau, and Janyce
Wiebe. 2014. SemEval-2014 Task 10: Multilingual
Semantic Textual Similarity. In Proceedings of the
8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation
(SemEval 2014), pages 81–91, Dublin, Ireland. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Daniel M. Cer, Mona T.
Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Rada Mihalcea, Ger
man Rigau, and Janyce Wiebe. 2016. SemEval
2016 Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity, Mono
lingual and Cross-Lingual Evaluation. In Proceed
ings of the 10th International Workshop on Seman
tic Evaluation, SemEval@NAACL-HLT 2016, San
Diego, CA, USA, June 16-17, 2016, pages 497–511.
EnekoAgirre, Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez
Agirre, and Weiwei Guo. 2013. *SEM 2013 shared
task: Semantic Textual Similarity. In Second Joint
Conference on Lexical and Computational Seman
tics (*SEM), Volume 1: Proceedings of the Main
Conference and the Shared Task: Semantic Textual
Similarity, pages 32–43, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Mona Diab, Daniel Cer, and Aitor
Gonzalez-Agirre. 2012. SemEval-2012 Task 6: A
Pilot on Semantic Textual Similarity. In Proceed
ings of the First Joint Conference on Lexical and
Computational Semantics- Volume 1: Proceedings
of the Main Conference and the Shared Task, and
Volume 2: Proceedings of the Sixth International
Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, SemEval ’12,
pages 385–393, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Samuel R. Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts,
and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. A large anno
tated corpus for learning natural language inference.
In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empiri
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
632–642, Lisbon, Portugal. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Eneko Agirre, Iigo Lopez
Gazpio, and Lucia Specia. 2017. SemEval-2017
Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity Multilingual
and Crosslingual Focused Evaluation. In Proceed
ings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic
Evaluation (SemEval-2017), pages 1–14, Vancou
ver, Canada.
Daniel Cer, Yinfei Yang, Sheng-yi Kong, Nan Hua,
Nicole Limtiaco, Rhomni St. John, Noah Constant,
Mario Guajardo-Cespedes, Steve Yuan, Chris Tar,
Yun-Hsuan Sung, Brian Strope, and Ray Kurzweil.
2018. Universal Sentence Encoder. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.11175.
Alexis Conneau and DouweKiela. 2018. SentEval: An
Evaluation Toolkit for Universal Sentence Represen
tations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05449.
Alexis Conneau, Douwe Kiela, Holger Schwenk, Lo¨ ıc
Barrault, and Antoine Bordes. 2017. Supervised
Learning of Universal Sentence Representations
from Natural Language Inference Data. In Proceed
ings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 670–680,
Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computa
tional Linguistics.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: Pre-training of
Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Un
derstanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Bill Dolan, Chris Quirk, and Chris Brockett. 2004. Un
supervised Construction of Large Paraphrase Cor
pora: Exploiting Massively Parallel News Sources.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Confer
ence on Computational Linguistics, COLING ’04,
Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computa
tional Linguistics.
Liat Ein Dor, Yosi Mass, Alon Halfon, Elad Venezian,
Ilya Shnayderman, Ranit Aharonov, and Noam
Slonim. 2018. Learning Thematic Similarity Metric
from Article Sections Using Triplet Networks. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the As
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2:
Short Papers), pages 49–54, Melbourne, Australia.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Felix Hill, Kyunghyun Cho, and Anna Korhonen.
2016. Learning Distributed Representations of Sen
tences from Unlabelled Data. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference of the North American Chap
ter of the Association for Computational Linguis
tics: Human Language Technologies, pages 1367
1377, San Diego, California. Association for Com
putational Linguistics.
Minqing Hu and Bing Liu. 2004. Mining and Sum
marizing Customer Reviews. In Proceedings of the
Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD ’04,
pages 168–177, New York, NY, USA. ACM.
Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
and Jason Weston. 2019. Real-time Inference
in Multi-sentence Tasks with Deep Pretrained
Transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.01969,
abs/1905.01969.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Herv´ e J´egou. 2017.
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1702.08734.
Ryan Kiros, Yukun Zhu, Ruslan R Salakhutdinov,
Richard Zemel, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Torralba,
and Sanja Fidler. 2015. Skip-Thought Vectors. In
C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, D. D.Lee, M.Sugiyama,
and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Infor
mation Processing Systems 28, pages 3294–3302.
Curran Associates, Inc.
Xin Li and Dan Roth. 2002. Learning Question Classi
fiers. In Proceedings of the 19th International Con
ference on Computational Linguistics- Volume 1,
COLING ’02, pages 1–7, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretrain
ing Approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.
Marco Marelli, Stefano Menini, Marco Baroni, Luisa
Bentivogli, Raffaella Bernardi, and Roberto Zam
parelli. 2014. A SICK cure for the evaluation of
compositional distributional semantic models. In
Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference
on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’14),
pages 216–223, Reykjavik, Iceland. European Lan
guage Resources Association (ELRA).
Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R.
Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. 2019. On Mea
suring Social Biases in Sentence Encoders. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1903.10561.
Amita Misra, Brian Ecker, and Marilyn A. Walker.
2016. Measuring the Similarity of Sentential Ar
guments in Dialogue. In Proceedings of the SIG
DIAL 2016 Conference, The 17th Annual Meeting
of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Di
alogue, 13-15 September 2016, Los Angeles, CA,
USA, pages 276–287.
Bo Pang and Lillian Lee. 2004. A Sentimental Educa
tion: Sentiment Analysis Using Subjectivity Sum
marization Based on Minimum Cuts. In Proceed
ings of the 42nd Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL’04), Main Volume,
pages 271–278, Barcelona, Spain.
Bo Pang and Lillian Lee. 2005. Seeing Stars: Exploit
ing Class Relationships for Sentiment Categoriza
tion with Respect to Rating Scales. In Proceedings
of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL’05), pages 115
124, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christo
pher D. Manning. 2014. GloVe: Global Vectors for
Word Representation. In Empirical Methods in Nat
ural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1532
1543.
Yifan Qiao, Chenyan Xiong, Zheng-Hao Liu, and
Zhiyuan Liu. 2019.
Understanding the Be
haviors of BERT in Ranking. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.07531.
Nils Reimers, Philip Beyer, and Iryna Gurevych. 2016.
Task-Oriented Intrinsic Evaluation of Semantic Tex
tual Similarity. In Proceedings of the 26th Inter
national Conference on Computational Linguistics
(COLING), pages 87–96.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2018. Why Com
paring Single Performance Scores Does Not Al
low to Draw Conclusions About Machine Learn
ing Approaches. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09578,
abs/1803.09578.
Nils Reimers, Benjamin Schiller, Tilman Beck, Jo
hannes Daxenberger, Christian Stab, and Iryna
Gurevych. 2019. Classification and Clustering of
Arguments with Contextualized Word Embeddings.
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the As
sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 567
578, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Florian Schroff, Dmitry Kalenichenko, and James
Philbin. 2015. FaceNet: A Unified Embedding for
Face Recognition and Clustering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1503.03832, abs/1503.03832.
Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Wu, Jason
Chuang, Christopher D. Manning, Andrew Ng, and
Christopher Potts. 2013. Recursive Deep Models for
Semantic Compositionality Over a Sentiment Tree
bank. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process
ing, pages 1631–1642, Seattle, Washington, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is All
you Need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio,
H.Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Gar
nett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Pro
cessing Systems 30, pages 5998–6008.
Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.
2005. Annotating Expressions of Opinions and
Emotions in Language. Language Resources and
Evaluation, 39(2):165–210.
Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel Bowman.
2018. A Broad-Coverage Challenge Corpus for
Sentence Understanding through Inference. In Pro
ceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North Amer
ican Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Vol
ume1(LongPapers), pages1112–1122.Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Yinfei Yang, Steve Yuan, Daniel Cer, Sheng-Yi Kong,
Noah Constant, Petr Pilar, Heming Ge, Yun-hsuan
Sung, Brian Strope, and Ray Kurzweil. 2018.
Learning Semantic Textual Similarity from Conver
sations. In Proceedings of The Third Workshop
on Representation Learning for NLP, pages 164
174, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime G.
Carbonell, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V. Le.
2019. XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretrain
ing for Language Understanding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.08237, abs/1906.08237.
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q.
Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2019. BERTScore:
Evaluating Text Generation with BERT. arXiv
On the Naturalness of Software
Abram Hindle, Earl Barr, Mark Gabel, Zhendong Su, Prem Devanbu
devanbu@cs.ucdavis.edu
Unpublished version of ICSE 2012 paper, with expanded future work section
Enjoy! Comments Welcome.
Abstract—Natural languages like English are rich, complex,
and powerful. The highly creative and graceful use of languages
like English and Tamil, by masters like Shakespeare and Avvai
yar, can certainly delight and inspire. But in practice, given cog
nitive constraints and the exigencies of daily life, most human
utterances are far simpler and much more repetitive and pre
dictable. In fact, these utterances can be very usefully modeled
using modern statistical methods. This fact has led to the phe
nomenal success of statistical approaches to speech recognition,
natural language translation, question-answering, and text min
ing and comprehension.
We begin with the conjecture that most software is also natu
ral, in the sense that it is created by humans at work, with all
the attendant constraints and limitations—and thus, like natu
ral language, it is also likely to be repetitive and predictable. We
then proceed to ask whether a) code can be usefully modeled by
statistical language models and b) such models can be leveraged
to support software engineers. Using the widely adopted n-gram
model, we provide empirical evidence supportive of a positive
answer to both these questions. We show that code is also very
repetitive, and in fact even more so than natural languages. As
an example use of the model, we have developed a simple code
completion engine for Java that, despite its simplicity, already
improves Eclipse’s completion capability. We conclude the pa
per by laying out a vision for future research in this area.
Keywords-language models; n-gram; nature language process
ing; code completion; code suggestion
I. INTRODUCTION
The word “natural” in the title of this paper refers to the
fact that code, despite being written in an artificial language
(like C or Java) is a natural product of human effort. This use
of the word natural derives from the field of natural language
processing, where the goal is to automatically process texts in
natural languages, such as English and Tamil, for tasks such
as translation (to other natural languages), summarization,
understanding, and speech recognition.
The field of natural language processing (“NLP”, see
Sparck-Jones [1] for a brief history) went through several
decades of rather slow and painstaking progress, beginning
with early struggles with dictionary and grammar-based ef
forts in the 1960’s. In the 70’s and 80’s, the field was re
animated with ideas from logic and formal semantics, which
still proved too cumbersome to perform practical tasks at scale.
Both these approaches essentially dealt with NLP from first
principles—addressing language, in all its rich theoretical
glory, rather than examining corpora of actual utterances, i.e.,
what people actually write or say. In the 1980’s, a fundamental
shift to corpus-based, statistically rigorous methods occurred.
The availability of large, on-line corpora of natural language
text, including “aligned” text with translations in multiple lan
guages1, along with the computational muscle (CPU speed,
primary and secondary storage) to estimate robust statistical
models over very large data sets has led to stunning progress
and widely-available practical applications, such as statisti
cal translation used by translate.google.com.2 We argue
that an essential fact underlying this modern, exciting phase
of NLP is this: natural language may be complex and admit a
great wealth of expression, but what people write and say is
largely regular and predictable.
Our central hypothesis is that the same argument applies to
software:
Programming languages, in theory, are complex, flex
ible and powerful, but the programs that real people
actually write are mostly simple and rather repetitive,
and thus they have usefully predictable statistical proper
ties that can be captured in statistical language models
and leveraged for software engineering tasks.
We believe that this is a general, useful and practical notion
that, together with the very large publicly available corpora
of open-source code, will enable a new, rigorous, statistical
approach to a wide range of applications, in program analysis,
error checking, software mining, program summarization, and
code searching.
This paper is the first step in what we hope will be a long
and fruitful journey. We make the following contributions:
1) Weprovide support for our central hypothesis by instan
tiating a simple, widely-used statistical language model,
using modern estimation techniques over large software
corpora;
2) We demonstrate, using standard cross-entropy and per
1This included the Canadian Hansard (parliamentary proceedings), and
similar outputs from the European parliament.
2Indeed, a renowned pioneer of the statistical approach, Fred Jelenik, is
reputed to have exclaimed: “everytime a linguist leaves our group, the per
formance of our speech recognition goes up”!!! See http://en.wikiquote.org/
wiki/Fred Jelinek.
Draft!
plexity measures, that the model is indeed capturing the
A. Language Models
high-level statistical regularity that exists in software at
the n-gram level (probabilistic chains of tokens);
3) Weillustrate the use of such a language model by devel
oping a simple code suggestion tool that already substan
tially improves upon the existing suggestion facility in
the widely-used Eclipse IDE; and
4) Welay out our vision for an ambitious research agenda
that exploits large-corpus statistical models of natural
software to aid in a range of different software engineer
ing tasks.
II. MOTIVATION & BACKGROUND
There are many ways one could exploit the statistics of
natural programs. We begin with a simple motivating example.
We present more ambitious possibilities later in the paper.
Consider a speech recognizer, receiving a (noisy) radio
broadcast corresponding to “In Berlin today, Chancellor An
gela <radio buzz> announced ...”. A good speech recog
nizer might guess that the buzzed-out word was “Merkel”
from context. Likewise, consider an integrated development
environment (IDE) into which a programmer has typed in the
partial statement: “for(i=0;i<10”. In this context, it would
be quite reasonable for the IDE to suggest the completion
“;i++){ ” to the programmer.
Why do these guesses seem so reasonable to us? In the
first case, the reason lies in the highly predictable nature of
newscasts. News reports, like many other forms of culturally
contextualized and stylized natural language expression, tend
to be well-structured and repetitive. With a reasonable prior
knowledge of this style, it is quite possible to fill in the blanks.
Thus if we hear the world “Chancellor Angela”, we can expect
that, in most cases the next word is “Merkel”. This fact is well
known and exploited by speech recognizers, natural language
translation devices, and even some OCR (optical character
recognition) tools. The second example relies on a lesser
known fact: natural programs are quite repetitive. This fact
was first observed and reported in a very large-scale study of
code by Gabel & Su [2], which found that code fragments
of surprisingly large size tend to reoccur. Thus, if we see
the fragment for(i=0;i<10 we know what follows in most
cases. In general, if we know the most likely sequences in a
code body, we can often help programmers complete code.
What this essentially amounts to is the following: using a
code corpus to estimate the probability distribution of code
sequences. With the ability to calculate such a distribution
and if this distribution has low-entropy, given a prefix of a
code sequence, we should often be able to guess with high
confidence what follows.
What should the form of a such a distribution be, and how
should we estimate its parameters? In NLP, these distributions
A language model essentially assigns a probability to an
utterance. For us, “utterances” are programs. More formally,
consider a set of allowable program tokens3 T , and the (over
generous) set of possible program sequences T ∗; we assume
the set of possible implemented systems to be S ⊂ T ∗. A
language model is a probability distribution p(.) over systems
s ∈S,i.e.,
∀s ∈ S [0 <p(s) < 1] ∧
p(s) = 1
s∈S
In practice, given a corpus C of programs C ⊆ S, and a
suitably chosen parametric distribution p(.), we attempt to
calculate a maximum-likelihood estimate of the parameters of
this distribution; this gives us an estimated language model.
The choice of a language model is usually driven by practical
ities: how easy is it to estimate and how easy is it to use. For
these reasons, the most ubiquitous is the n-gram model, which
we now describe.
Consider the sequence of tokens in a document (in our case,
a system s), a1a2 ...ai ...an. N-gram models statistically
estimate how likely tokens are to follow other tokens. Thus,
we can estimate the probability of a document based on the
product of a series of conditional probabilities:
p(s) = p(a1)p(a2 | a1)p(a3 | a1a2)...p(an|a1 ...an−1)
N-gram models assume a Markov property, i.e., token oc
currences are influenced only by a limited prefix of length n,
thus for 4-gram models, we assume
p(ai|a1 ...ai−1) p(ai | ai−3ai−2ai−1)
These models are estimated from a corpus using simple
maximum-likelihood based frequency-counting of token se
quences. Thus, if “∗” is a wildcard, we ask, how relatively
often are the tokens a1,a2,a3 followed by a4:
p(a4|a1a2a3) = count(a1a2a3a4)
count(a1a2a3∗)
In practice, estimation of n-gram models is quite a bit more
complicated. The main difficulties arise from data sparsity,
i.e., the richness of the model in comparison to the available
data. For example, with 104 token vocabulary, a trigram model
must estimate 1012 coefficients. Some trigrams may never oc
cur in one corpus, but may in fact occur elsewhere. This will
lead to technical difficulties; when we encounter a previously
unseen n-gram, we are in principle “infinitely surprised”, be
cause an “infinitely improbable” event x estimated from the
previously seen corpus to have p(x) = 0 actually occurs; this
leads to infinite entropy values, as will become evident below.
Smoothing is a technique to handle cases we where have not
seen the n-grams yet and still produce usable results with suf
ficient statistical rigour. Fortunately, there exist a variety of
2
Draft!
are called “language models”.
3Here we use a token to mean its lexeme.
Draft!
techniquesforsmoothingtheestimatesofaverylargenumber
ofcoefficients,someofwhicharelargerthantheyshouldbe
andotherssmaller.Sometimesitisbettertoback-offfroma
trigrammodel toabigrammodel.Thetechnicaldetailsare
beyondthescopeofthispaper,butcanbefoundinanyad
vancedNLPtextbook.InpracticewefoundthatKneser-Ney
smoothing(e.g.,Koehn[3],§7)givesgoodresultsforsoftware
corpora.However,wenotethattheseareveryearlyeffortsin
thisarea,andnewsoftwarelanguagemodelsandestimation
techniquesmightimproveontheresultspresentedbelow.
Buthowdoweknowwhenwehaveagoodlanguagemodel?
B.WhatMakesaGoodModel?
Givenarepetitiveandhighlypredictablecorpusofdocu
ments(orprograms),agoodmodelcapturestheregularities
inthecorpus.Thus,agoodmodel,estimatedcarefullyfrom
arepresentativecorpus,willpredictwithhighconfidencethe
contentsofanewdocumentdrawnfromthesamepopulation.
Suchamodelcanguessthecontentsof thenewdocument
withveryhighprobability.Inotherwords,themodelwillnot
findanewdocumentparticularlysurprising,or“perplexing”.
InNLP,thisideaiscapturedbyameasurecalledperplexity,
oritslog-transformedversion,cross-entropy4.Givenadoc
uments=a1...an,oflengthn,andalanguagemodelM,
weassumethattheprobabilityofthedocumentestimatedby
themodel ispM(s).Wecanwritedownthecross-entropy
measureas:
HM(s)=−1
n logpM(a1...an)
andbytheformulationpresentedinSectionII-A:
HM(s)=−1
n
n
1
logpM(ai |a1...ai−1)
This isameasureofhow“surprised”amodel isbythe
givendocument.Agoodmodelhas lowentropyformost
documents.Itgiveshigherprobabilities,(closerto1,andthus
lowerabsolutelogvalues) tomostwords inthedocument.
Ifonecouldmanagetodeploya(hypothetical)trulysuperb
modelwithinanIDEtohelpprogrammerscompletecode
fragments, itmightbeable toguesswithhighprobability
mostoftheprogram,sothatmostoftheprogrammingwork
canbedonebyjusthittingatabkey!Inpracticeofcourse,we
wouldprobablybesatisfiedwithalotless.
Buthowgoodarethemodelsthatwecanactuallybuild
for“natural”software?Issoftwareisreallyas“natural”(i.e.,
unsurprising)asnaturallanguage?
III.METHODOLOGY&FINDINGS
Toshedlightonthisquestion,weperformedaseriesof
experimentswithbothnaturallanguageandcodecorpora,first
comparingthe“naturalness”(usingcross-entropy)ofcode
4http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross entropy;seealso [4],§2.2,page75,
equation2.50
Tokens
JavaProject Version Lines Total Unique
Ant 20110123 254457 919148 27008
Batik 20110118 367293 1384554 30298
Cassandra 20110122 135992 697498 13002
Eclipse-E4 20110426 1543206 6807301 98652
Log4J 20101119 68528 247001 8056
Lucene 20100319 429957 2130349 32676
Maven2 20101118 61622 263831 7637
Maven3 20110122 114527 462397 10839
Xalan-J 20091212 349837 1085022 39383
Xerces 20110111 257572 992623 19542
Tokens
UbuntuDomain Version Lines Total Unique
Admin 10.10 9092325 41208531 1140555
Doc 10.10 87192 362501 15373
Graphics 10.10 1422514 7453031 188792
Interpreters 10.10 1416361 6388351 201538
Mail 10.10 1049136 4408776 137324
Net 10.10 5012473 20666917 541896
Sound 10.10 1698584 29310969 436377
Tex 10.10 1405674 14342943 375845
Text 10.10 1325700 6291804 155177
Web 10.10 1743376 11361332 216474
Tokens
EnglishCorpus Version Lines Total Unique
Brown 20101101 81851 1161192 56057
Gutenberg 20101101 55578 2621613 51156
TableI:10JavaProjects,Ccodefrom10Ubuntu10.10Cat
egories,3EnglishCorpususedinourstudy.Englishisthe
concatenationofBrownandGutenberg.Ubuntu10.10Maver
ickwasreleasedon2010/10/10.
withEnglishtexts,andthencomparingvariouscodecorpora
toeachothertofurthergaininsightintothesimilaritiesand
differencesbetweencodecorpora.
Ournaturallanguagestudieswerebasedontwoverywidely
usedcorpora:theBrowncorpus,andtheGutenbergcorpus5.
Forcode,weusedseveralsetsofcorpora,includingacollec
tionofJavaprojects,aswellacollectionofapplicationsfrom
Ubuntu,brokenupintoapplicationdomaincategories.Allare
listedinTableI.
Afterremovingcomments,theprojectswerelexicallyana
lyzedtoproducetokensequencesthatwereusedtoestimate
n-gramlanguagemodels.MostofourcorporaareinCand
Java.Extendingtootherlanguagesistrivial.
TheJavaprojectswereourcentral focus;weusedthem
bothforcross-entropystudies,andsomeexperimentswithan
Eclipseplug-inforalanguage-model-basedcode-suggestion
task.TableIdescribesthe10Javaprojectsthatweused.The
VersionindicatesthedateofthelastrevisionintheGitrepos
itorywhenweclonedtheproject.UniqueTokensrefers to
thenumberofdifferentkindsoftokensthatmakeuptheto
taltokencountgivenintheTokensfield.Linesiscalculated
usingUnixwconallfileswithineachrepository,andtokens
5Weretrievedthesecorporafromhttp://www.nltk.org/.
3
10
Cross Entropy (10−Fold Cross Validation)
8
6
4
2
l
1
2
3
Figure 1: Comparison of English Cross-Entropy versus the
Code Cross Entropy of 10 projects.
are extracted from each of these files. The Ubuntu domain
categories were quite large in some cases, ranging up to 9
million lines, 41 million tokens (one million unique). The
number of unique tokens is interesting and relevant, as they
give a very rough indication on the potential “surprisingness”
of the project corpus. If these unique token were uniformly
distributed throughout the project (highly unlikely), we could
expect a cross-entropy of log2(1.15E6), or approximately 20
bits. A similar calculation for the Java projects ranges from
about 13 bits to about 17 bits.
A. Cross-Entropy of Code
Cross-entropy is a measure of how surprising a test docu
ment is to a distribution model estimated from a corpus. Thus
if one tests a corpus against itself, one has to set aside some
portion of the corpus for testing, and estimate (train) the model
on the rest of the corpus. In all our experiments, we measured
cross-entropy by averaging out over a 10-fold cross-validation:
we split the corpus 90%–10% (in lines) at random 10 loca
tions, trained on the 90% and tested on 10%, and measured
the average cross-entropy. A further bit of notation: when we
say we measured the cross-entropy of X to Y , Y is the train
ing corpus used to estimate the parameters of the distribution
model MY used to calculate HMY
(X).
First, we wanted to see if there was evidence to support
the claim that software was “natural”, in the same way that
English is natural, viz., whether regularities in software could
be captured by language models.
RQ 1: Don-gram language models capture regularities in
software?
To answer this question, we estimated n-gram models for
several values of n over both the English corpus and the 10
Java language project corpora, using averages over 10-fold
cross validation (each corpus to itself) as described above. The
l
results are in Figure 1. The single line above is the average
over the 10 folds for the English corpus, beginning at about
l
l
4
l
l
l
5
Order of N−Grams
l
l
l
l
l
6
l
7
l
8
l
9
l
10
10 bits for unigram models, and trailing down to under 8 bits
for 10-gram models. The average self cross-entropy for the 10
projects are shown below in boxplots, one for each order from
unigram models to 10-gram models. Several observations can
be made. First, software unigram entropy is much lower than
might be expected from a uniform distribution over unique
tokens, because token frequencies are obviously very skewed.
Second, cross-entropy declines rapidly with n-gram order,
saturating around tri- or 4-grams. The similarity in the decline
in English and the Java projects is striking. This decline sug
gests that there is as much of repetitive local context that is
being captured by the language model in Java programs, as
it is in the English corpora. We take this to be highly encour
aging: the ability to model the regularity of the local context
in natural languages has proven to be extremely valuable in
statistical natural language processing; we hope (and in fact,
provide some evidence to support the claim) that this regularity
can be exploited for software tools.
Last, but not least, software is far more regular than English
with entropies sinking down to under 2 bits in some cases.
Corpus-based statistical language models can capture
a high level of local regularity in software, even more so
than in English.
This raises a worrying question: is the increased regularity
we are capturing in software merely a difference between En
glish and Java? Java is certainly a much simpler language than
English, with a far more structured syntax. Might not the lower
entropy be simply an artifact of the artificially simple syntax
for Java? If the statistical regularity of the local context being
captured by the language model were simply arising from the
simplicity of Java, then we should find this uniformly across
all the projects; in particular, if we train a model on one Java
project, and test on another, we should successfully capture
the local regularity in the language. Thus, we sublimate this
anxiety-provoking question into the following:
RQ 2: Isthe local regularity that the statistical language
model captures merely language-specific or is it also
project-specific?
This is a pretty simple experiment. For each of the 10
projects, we train a trigram model, and evaluate its cross
entropy with each of the 9 others, and compare the value
with the average 10-fold cross-entropy against itself. This
plot is shown in Figure 3. The x-axis lists all the different
Java projects, and, for each, the boxplot shows the range of
4
Draft!
6.0
5.5
5.0
Cross Entropy
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
l
l
116
l
l
22
21
l
23
l
15
l
l
86
l
l
l
26
l
135
118
31
Self Cross Entropy
Admin
Doc
Graphics Interpreters
Mail
Net
Corpus Categories
Sound
Tex
Text
Web
Figure 2: 10 categories of Ubuntu applications cross-entropy (10 categories, 593 total packages).
of the multi-token local regularity captured by the models to
14
12
10
Cross Entropy
8
6
4
2
Self Cross Entropy
Cassandra
Batik
Ant
Figure 3: 10 projects cross-entropy versus self cross-entropy.
cross-entropies with the other nine projects. The red line at
the bottom shows the average self cross-entropy of the project
against itself. As can be seen the self-entropy is always lower.
The language models are capturing a significant level
of local regularity that is not an artifact of the program
ming language syntax, but rather arising from “natural
ness” or repetitiveness specific to each project.
This is a rather noteworthy result: it appears each project
has its own type of local, non-Java-specific regularity that is
being captured by the model; furthermore, the local regularity
of each project is special unto itself, and different from that
of the other projects. Most software engineers will find this
intuitive: each project has its own vocabulary, and specific
local patterns of iteration, field access, method calls, etc. It
is important to note that the models are capturing non-Java
specific project regularity beyond simply the differences in
unigram vocabularies. In section IV, we discuss the application
a completion task. As we demonstrate in that section, the
models are able to successfully suggest non-linguistic tokens
(tokens that are not Java keywords) about 50% of the time;
this also provides evidence that the low entropy produced by
the models are not just because of Java language simplicity.
But projects do not exist in isolation; the entire idea of
product-line engineering rests on the fact that products in
similar domains are quite similar to each other. This raises the
interesting question:
Xerces2
Xalan−J
Maven3
Maven2
Lucene
Log4j
Eclipse
Corpus Projects
RQ 3: Don-gram models capture similarities within and
differences between project domains?
We approached this question by studying categories of appli
cations within Ubuntu. We selected 10 the application domain
categories, listed in Table I, each of which had a sizeable num
ber of members. The categories (with number of projects in
each category) are Administration (116), Documentation (22),
Graphics (21), Interpreters (23), Mail (15), Networking (86),
Sound/Audio (26), Tex/Latex related (135), Text processing
(118), and Web (31). For each category, we calculated the
self cross-entropy within the category (red box) and the other
cross-entropy, the cross-entropy against all the other categories
(boxplot), shown in Figure 2. Here again, as in Figure 3, we
see that there appears to be a lot of local regularity repeated
within application domains, and much less so across applica
tion domains. Some domains, e.g. the Web, appear to have a
very high-level of regularity (and lower self-entropy); this is
an interesting phenomenon, requiring further study.
Concluding Discussion We have seen that a high degree of
local repetitiveness, or regularity, is present in code corpora
and, furthermore, that n-gram models effectively capture these
local regularities. We find evidence suggesting that these local
regularities are specific to both projects and to application
domains. We also find evidence that these regularities arise
5
Draft!
not merely from the relatively more regular (when compared
to natural languages) syntax of Java, but also arise from other
Algorithm 1 MSE(eproposals, nproposals, maxrank, minlen)
types of project- and domain-specific local regularities that
exist in the code. In the next section, we demonstrate that
these project-specific regularities are actually useful, by using
project-specific models to extend the Eclipse suggestion en
gine; we also show that the n-gram models quite often (about
50% of the time) provide suggestions that are project-specific,
rather than merely suggesting Java keywords guessable from
context.
In Natural language, these local regularities have proven
to be of profound value, for tasks such as translation. It is
our belief that these simple local regularities can be used for
code summarization and code searching; we also believe that
deeper, semantic properties will also be in general manifest in
these same local regularities. These are discussed further in
future work section (Section VI).
IV. SUGGESTING THE NEXT TOKEN
The strikingly low entropy (between 3 and 4 bits) produced
by the smoothed n-gram model indicates that even at the local
token-sequence level, there is a high degree of “naturalness”.
If we make 8-16 guesses (23 − 24) as to what the next token
is, we may very well guess the right one!
Eclipse Suggestion Plug-in We built an Eclipse plug-in to
test this idea. Eclipse, like many other IDEs, has a built-in
suggestion engine that suggests a next token whenever it can.
Eclipse (and other IDEs) suggestions are typically based on
type information available in context. We conjectured that
corpus-based n-gram models suggestion engine (for brevity,
NGSE) could enhance eclipse’s built-in suggestion engine
(for brevity, ECSE) by offering tokens that tend to naturally
follow from preceding ones in the relevant corpus.
The NGSE uses a trigram model built from the corpus of
a lexed project. At every point in the code, NGSE uses the
previous two tokens, already entered into the text buffer, and
attempts to guess the next token. The language model built
from the corpus gives maximum likelihood estimates of the
probability of a specific choice of next token; this probability
can be used to rank order the likely next tokens. Our imple
mentation produces rank-ordered suggestions in less than 0.2
seconds on average. Both NGSE and ECSE produce many
suggestions. Presenting all would be overwhelming. Therefore
we need to come up with a heuristic to merge the lists from
the two groups: given an admissible number n of suggestions
to be presented to the user, choose n candidates from both
NGSE’s and ECSE’s offers.
We observed that in general, NGSE was good at recom
mending shorter tokens, and ECSE was better at longer to
kens (we discuss the reasons for this phenomenon later in this
section). This suggested the simple merge algorithm MSE,
defined in Algorithm 1. Whenever Eclipse offers long tokens
(we picked 7 as the break-even length, based on observation)
Require: eproposals and nproposals are ordered sets of
Eclipse and N-gram proposals.
elong := {p ∈ eproposals[1..maxrank] | strlen(p) > 6}
if elong= ∅ then
return eproposals[1..maxrank]
end if
return eproposals[1.. maxrank
2 
] ◦ nproposals[1.. maxrank
2 
]
Eclipse. Otherwise, we pick half from Eclipse and half from
n-grams.
The relative performance of MSE and ECSE in actual prac
tice might depend on a great many factors, and would require a
well-controlled, human study to be done at scale. A suggestion
engine can present more or fewer choices; it may offer all sug
gestions, or only offer suggestions that are long. Suggestions
could be selected with a touch-screen, with a mouse, or with
a down-arrow key. Since our goal here is to gauge the power
of corpus-based language models, as opposed to building the
most user-friendly merged suggestion engine (which remains
future work) we conducted an automated experiment, rather
than a human-subject study.
We controlled for 2 factors in our experiments: the string
length of suggestions l, and the number of choices n presented
to the user. We repeated the experiment varying n, for n =
2, 6,10 and l, for l = 3,4,5,...15. We omitted suggestions
less than 3 characters, as not useful. Also, when merging
two suggestion lists, we chose to pick at least one from each,
and thus n ≥ 2. We felt that more than 10 choices would
be overwhelming—although our findings do not change very
much at all even with 16 and 20 choices. We choose 5 projects
for study: Ant, Maven, Log4J, Xalan, and Xerces. In each
project, we set aside a test set of 40 randomly chosen files
(200 set aside in all) and built a trigram language model on the
remaining files for each project. We then used the MSE and
ECSE algorithms to predict every token in the 40 set-aside
files, and evaluated how many more times the MSE made a
successful suggestion, when compared to the basic ECSE. In
each case, we evaluated the advantage of MSE over ECSE,
measured as the (percent and absolute) gain in number of
correct suggestions at each combination of factors n and l.
How does the language model help? The results are pre
sented in Figure 4. Note that the figure has two y-scales: the
left side (black circle points) is percent additional correct sug
gestions, and the right side (red square points) are the raw
counts. Since the raw count of successful suggestions from
the Eclipse engine ECSE also declines with length, both mea
sures are useful. As can be seen MSE provides measurable
advantage over ECSE in all settings of both factors, although
the advantage in general declines with l. The gains up through
6
Draft!
within the top n, we greedily pick all the top n offers from
6-character tokens are quite substantial, in the range of 33
Draft!
l
l
l
l
l
l l l
l
l l l l
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Percent Gain over Eclipse
Raw Gain (count)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Suggestion Length
l Percent Gain
Raw Gain (count)
(a)Gainusingtop2suggestions.
l
l
l l
l
l l
l
l
l l l l
0
20
40
60
80
100
Percent Gain over Eclipse
Raw Gain (count)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Suggestion Length
l Percent Gain
Raw Gain (count)
(b)Gainusingtop6suggestions.
l
l
l l
l l l
l
l
l l l l
0
20
40
60
80
Percent Gain over Eclipse
Raw Gain (count)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Suggestion Length
l Percent Gain
Raw Gain (count)
(c)Gainusingtop10suggestions.
Figure4:Suggestiongainsfrommergingn-gramsuggestionsintothoseofEclipse.
67%additionalsuggestionsfromthelanguagemodelthatare
correct;between7and15characters, thegainsrangefrom
3–16%.
Theadditional suggestions fromNGSE run thegamut,
includingmethods, classes&fieldspredictable fromfre
quent trigrams inthecorpus, (e.g.,println,iterator,
IOException,append,toString,assertEquals,
transform), package names (e.g., apache,tools,
util,java)aswellaslanguagekeywords(e.g.,import,
public,return,this).Anexaminationof the tokens
revealswhy then-grams approachaddsmost valuewith
shortertokens.Thelanguagemodelwebuildisbasedonall
thefiles inthesystem, andthemost frequentn-gramsare
thosethatoccurfrequentlyinallthefiles.Inthecorpus,we
findthatcoderstendtochooseshorternamesforentitiesthat
areusedmorewidelyandmoreoften;naturallythesegiverise
tostrongersignalsthatarepickedupbythen-gramlanguage
model. It isworthrepeatingherethatasignificantportion,
viz..,50%ofthesuccessfulsuggestionsarenotJavakeywords
guessed fromlanguagecontext—theyareproject-specific
tokens.Thisreinforcesourclaimthatthestatisticallanguage
modeliscapturingasignificantleveloflocalregularityinthe
projectcorpus.
Inthetablebelow,wepresentwepresentadifferentwayof
lookingatthebenefitofMSE;thetotalnumberofkeystrokes
savedbyusingthebaseECSE,(firstrow)theMSE(second
row)andthepercentgainfromusingMSE.
Top2 Top6 Top10
ECSE 42743 77245 95318
MSE 68798 103100 120750
Increase 61% 33% 27%
Weclosethissectionbypointingoutthatweusedonespe
cificlanguagemodeltoenhanceonespecificsoftwaretool,a
suggestionengine.Withmoresophisticatedlanguagemodels,
specificallyonesthatcombinessyntax,scopingandtypein
formation,weexpecttoachieveevenlowerentropy,andthus
betterperformanceinthisandothersoftwaretools.
V. RELATEDWORK
Thereareafewrelatedareasofresearch, intowhichthis
lineofworkcouldbereasonablycontextualized.
CodeCompletionandSuggestionBycompletionwemean
thetaskofcompletingapartiallytyped-intoken;bysuggestion
wemeansuggestingacompletetoken.Thediscussionabove
concernedsuggestionengines.
Severalmodernmaturesoftwaredevelopmentenvironments
(SDEs)providebothcodecompletionandcodesuggestion,
oftenwithaunifiedinterface.Twonotableopen-sourceJava
basedexamplesareEclipseandIntelliJIDEA.Asinourwork,
thesetoolsdrawpossiblecompletionsfromexistingcode,but
themethodsofsuggestionarefundamentallydifferent.
EclipseandIntelliJIDEArespondtoaprogrammer’scom
pletionrequest(akeyboardshortcutsuchasctrl+space)by
deducingwhattokens“mightapply”inthecurrentsyntactic
context.Here,thetoolsareprimarilyguidedbyJavaprogram
minglanguagesemantics.Forexample,bothEclipseandIntel
liJIDEArespondtoacompletionrequest,byparsingavailable
sourcecode,andcreateashortlistofexpectedtokentypes.If
thislistcontains,say,areferencetype,thetoolsusetherules
ofthetypesystemtoaddalistofcurrently-definedtype-names
tothelistofcompletions.Similarly,ifavariableisexpected,
thetoolsnamesvisibleinthesymboltable.EclipseandIDEA
implementdozensofthese“syntacticandsemanticrules”for
variousclassesofsyntacticconstructs.Asafinalstep,both
tools rankthecompletionswithacollectionofapparently
hand-codedheuristics.
Ourapproachiscomplementary.Ratherthanusinglanguage
semanticsandimmediatecontext,toguesswhatmightapply,
7
our n-gram language model captures what most often does ap
static analysis with an entropy-based measure over the distri
ply. Our approach offers a great deal more flexibility and it also
has the potential to be much more precise: the space of com
monly used completions is naturally far smaller than the space
of “language-allowed” completions. We emphasize, however,
that our approach is generally complementary; language based
guesses can be enhanced (or ordered) using corpus statistics.
It’s noteworthy that perhaps some of the strongest evidence
for the “naturalness” of software, though, is how well our
completion prototype functions in spite of not doing this.
There are approaches arguably more advanced than those
currently available in IDEs. The BMN completion algorithm
of Bruch et al. [5] is focused on finding the most likely method
calls likely to complete an expression by using frequency of
method calls and prior usage in similar circumstances. We
propose a broad vision for using language models of code
corpora in software tools. Our specific illustrative completion
application has a broader completion goal, completing all
types of tokens, not just method calls. Later, Bruch et al. [6]
lay out a vision for next-generation IDEs that take advantage
of “collective wisdom” embodied in code bodies and recorded
human action. We enthusiastically concur with this vision;
our specific approach is that “natural software” has statistical
regularities that allow techniques from statistical NLP to be
profitably applied in the endeavor to make this vision a reality.
Robbes and Lanza [7] compare a set of different method
call and class-name completion strategies, which start with
a multi-letter prefix. They introduce an approach based on
history and show that it improves performance. Our approach
is complementary to theirs: it can provide full-token comple
tion of any token and is based a language model that exploits
regularities in program corpora. Han et al. [8] uses Hidden
Markov Models (HMM) to infer likely tokens from short form
tokens mentioned. They make use of a dynamic programming
trellis approach for backtracking and suggestion. Their HMM
is in fact a language model, but the paper does not describe
how effective a model it is or how well it would perform for
completion tasks without user-provided abbreviations.
Jacob and Tairas [9] used N-gram language models for a
different application: to find matching code clones relevant to
partial programming task. Language models were built over
clone groups (not entire corpora as we propose) and used to
retrieve and present candidate clones relevant to a partially
completed coding task.
Hou and Pletcher [10] used context-specific API informa
tion in order to enable the sorting of Eclipse code completions
by using static type-based information. Users may optionally
filter out future completion proposals.
The “naturalness” of names in code There has been a line
of work on automatically evaluating the quality of entity names
in code: do the names reflect the meanings of the artifacts, and
if not, how could they be improved [11, 12]? Work by Høst and
bution of simple semantic properties of methods in a corpus to
determine which method names are most discriminatory, and
they use it to detect names whose usage are inconsistent with
the corpus. While this work does not explicitly use a language
model to capture the general “naturalness” of software over a
large corpus, it does have some similarity to a future line of
work we propose below.
Summarization and Concern Location There is also a line
of work on generating natural language descriptions (sum
maries) of code [15–17]. This work relies on inferring seman
tic properties of code by static analysis, rather than leveraging
the “natural” regularities of software corpora as captured by
statistical models; it is complementary to ours: properties de
rived by static analysis (as long as they can be done efficiently,
and at scale) could be used to enrich statistical models of large
software corpora. Another line of work seeks to locate parts of
code relevant to a specified concern (e.g. “place auction bid”),
which could be local or cross-cutting, based on fragments of
code names [18], facts mined from code [19], or co-occurrence
of related words in code [20].
NLP and Requirements Researchers have studied the use of
natural language in requirements engineering: can we utilize
natural language specifications to automatically generate more
formal specifications, or even code? [21–23] Some of these
approaches make use of NLP tools like parsers and part-of
speech taggers. Our approach considers instead the “natural
ness” of code, as embodied in statistical models built from
large corpora of artifacts; however we also consider (in future
work) the possibility of using aligned (code/natural language)
corpora for tasks such as code summarization or code search,
which could be viewed as translation tasks.
Software Mining Work in this very active area [24] aims to
mine useful information from software repositories. Many pa
pers can be found in MSR conference series at ICSE, and rep
resentative works include mining API usages [25, 26], patterns
of errors [27, 28], topic extraction [29], guiding changes [30]
and several others. The approaches used vary. We argue that
the “naturalness” of software provides a conceptual perspec
tive for this work, and also offers some novel implementation
approaches. The conceptual perspective rests on the idea use
ful information is often manifest in software in uniform, and
uncomplicated ways; the implementation approach indicates
that the uniform and uncomplicated manifestation of useful
facts can be determined from a large, representative software
corpus in which the required information is already known
and annotated. This corpus can be used to estimate the statisti
cal relationship between the required information and readily
observable facts; this relationship can be used to reliably find
similar information in new programs similar to the corpus. We
8
Draft!
Østvold [13, 14] also concerns method naming: they combine
explain this further in future work (Sections VI-C and VI-D).
VI. FUTURE DIRECTIONS
calculating the most likely sentence using a conceptually sim
We present now possible applications of corpus-based sta
tistical methods to aid software engineering tasks.
A. Improved Language Models
In this paper, we exploited a common language model (n
grams) that effectively captures local regularity. There are
several avenues for extension. Existing, very large bodies of
code can be readily parsed, typed, scoped, and even subject to
simple semantic analysis. All of these can be modeled using
enhanced language models to capture regularities that exist at
syntactic, type, scope, and even semantic levels.
There’s a difficulty here: the richer a model, the more data
is needed to provide good estimates for the model parameters;
thus the risk of data sparsity grows as we enrich our models.
Ideas analogous to the smoothing techniques used in n-gram
models will have to be adapted and applied to build richer
models of software corpora. Still, if regularities in syntax,
type, scope, and even semantic properties can be captured in
models, these may then be exploited for software engineering
tasks, some of which we discuss further below.
B. Language Models for Accessibility
Some programmers have difficulty using keyboards, be
cause of RSI or visual impairment. There has been quite a bit
of work on aiding such programmers using speech recognition
(e.g., [31–33]). However, these approaches suffer from fairly
high recognition error rates and are not widely used [34]. None
of the published approaches make use of a statistical language
model trained on specific code corpora. We hypothesize that
the use of a language model can significantly reduce the error
rates; they certainly play a crucial role in conventional speech
recognition engines. Because a large proportion of develop
ment work occurs in a maintenance or re-engineering context,
language models derived from existing code should improve
the performance of these speech recognition systems. Even
when only a small amount of relevant code exists, language
model adaptation techniques [35] could be applied, using cor
pora of similar code.
C. Summarizing and/or Retrieving Code
Consider the task of summarizing a fragment of code (or
change to code) in English. Consider also the approximate
reverse task: finding/retrieving a relevant fragment of code
(e.g. method call) given an English description. We draw an
analogy between these two problems and statistical natural
language translation, (SNLT ). Code and English are two
languages, and essentially both the above are translation tasks.
SNLT relies on access to an aligned corpus, which is a large
set of sentences simultaneously presented in two or more
languages (e.g.., proceedings of parliaments in Canada and
Europe). Consider the problem of translating a Tamil sentence
T to an English sentence E. The translation process works by
ple Bayesian probability formulation, by maximizing the right
hand size of this equation over all possible English sentences
E:
p(E | T) = p(T | E).p(E)
p(T)
The denominator can safely be ignored, as long as we just
maximize the numerator. Of the two terms in the numerator,
the distribution p(T | E) is estimated using an aligned corpus;
and the distribution p(E) can be estimated over the English
part of the aligned corpus, or another available English corpus.
Note the formulations works both ways, and be used for the
reverse translation task.
We propose to tackle the summarization/retrieval task using
statistical estimates derived from several corpora. First, we
use an aligned (English/Code) corpora built from multiple
sources: One source arises from the version history of a pro
gram. Each commit in a typical project offers a matched pair
of a log message (English), and some changes (Code). An
other source of aligned examples are in-line comments that are
clearly matchable with nearby code [36]. Second, we can use
the any available English language text associated with a given
project, including all comments in the code, any available code
or design documents, bug reports, discussions on mailing lists
etc, to build a relevant English corpus. Finally, we use the code
of the project to build the code corpus. With these corpora one
can build estimate models of distributions of the form p(C)
for code fragments, p(C|E) of code probability distributions
conditional on aligned English text, and vice versa; these mod
els can then be used to select maximally likely code fragments
given English descriptions, or vice versa, using the standard
Bayesian formulation presented above. This approach could
use semantic properties of code, as well; however, unlike Buse
&Weimer [16], who document the semantics of each change
in isolation, we would use statistics of semantic properties
over large aligned code/text corpora; these statistics might
allow us to provide the reason why changes were made, rather
than just documenting what was changed.
D. Software Tools
Wehypothesize that the “naturalness” of software implies a
“naturalness” of deeper properties of software, such as those
normally computed by powerful but expensive software tools;
we hypothesize that (because programmers tend to be repet
itive, and not too creative) deeper, more semantic properties
of programs are also manifest in programs in superficially
similar ways. More specifically, we hypothesize that seman
tic properties are usually manifest in superficial ways that
are computationally cheap to detect, particularly when com
pared to the cost (or even infeasibility) of determining these
properties by sound (or complete) static analysis.
For example, the use of unprotected string functions like
strcat (as opposed to strncat) is evidence for a potential
buffer flow, but not conclusive proof. As another example,
9
Draft!
suppose 3 related methods (wherein the “relatedness” has
been detected using a recommender system [37, 38]) open,
access, closearecalled together in the same method, with
the 3 methods occurring in that textual order in the code, and
access occurring within a loop. This is evidence (albeit not
conclusive) that the 3 methods are to be used with the proto
col open-access∗-close. These are heuristics, analogous
to the probabilistic constraints used in Merlin (See Livshits
et al. [39], Figure 3). But where do they come from? In Mer
lin, they are hard-coded heuristics based on researchers’ in
tuitions; we argue rather that they should be derived from
building corpus-level distribution models, making using of
prior knowledge about protocols already known to be in use
in those corpora.
This admittedly is a leap of faith; however, if it holds up (and
we have found anecdotal evidence that it does, and some prior
research implicitly makes a version of this assumption [39])
one can leverage this notion to build simple, scalable, and
effective approximations in a wide variety of settings, as we
now describe.
Consider a very general formulation of a software tool that
computes a function f over a system s, drawn from a domain
of systems S thus:
f(s) : S −→ D,
where the range D represents a fact derived by analysis (e.g.
a may-alias fact), or a mined rule (e.g. an API protocol), or a
error message (e.g. buffer-overflow warning), or even a new,
transformed version of the input system s ∈ S. Let us assume
that the function f is in general expensive or even infeasible
to calculate, and is thus subject to approximation error and cal
culation delays in practice. We reformulate this problem by es
timating f using an alternative formulation, ˆ
f, which chooses
the most likely value of f(s), given an easily calculated and
readily observed set of evidence features e1(s),e2(s),... Fea
tures ei(s) are like “symptoms” that are not deterministic,
conclusive proof of a specific conclusion f(s), but neverthe
less provide varying levels of justification for a probabilistic
belief in f(s).
We can formulate this from a Bayesian perspective. First,
we write down the probability that d holds of system s, given
the observed bits of evidence ei(s):
p(d | s) = p(e1(s),e2(s),...en(s))|d).p(d)
p(e1(s), e2(s),...,en(s))
We argue that the distributions on the right-hand side can
be estimated using large-corpus statistics. The denominator
can be estimated using the observed frequencies of evidence
events. For the numerator, the prior distribution p(d) is the
prior frequency of the output domain of f. The prior could be
estimated from observations in the corpus (e.g. How often due
concurrency or buffer overflow errors occur? How often do
different protocol patterns occur? etc.). In the absence of such
information, a uninformative (uniform) prior could be chosen.
Next, we estimate the strength of the association (likeli
hood) between the conclusion d and the observed features
e1(s)...en(s) in the corpus. p(e1(s),e2(s),...en(s))|d) is
the conditioned frequency of observation of feature observa
tions in the corpus when the output domain property d holds.
This term requires the availability of a corpus annotated with
property d . Even in cases where d mustbemanuallyannotated,
we argue that such corpora may be well-worth the investment
(by analogy with the Penn Tree Bank [40]) and can be con
structed using volunteer open-source community, and perhaps
such market mechanisms as the Mechanical Turk [41]. In some
cases, the manual annotation is not a huge effort. Consider the
problem of mining a protocol for a given API from a code body.
Assume for example a(previously known)APIwith3methods,
grouped in the protocol connect-access∗-disconnect,
and a large corpus of code known to correctly use this API.
This corpus can then be used to evaluate the strength of the
association between this known protocol and features in the
code; the only manual effort required here is to select the
indicative features, and identify the corpus and the relevant
protocol. Once the association strength of a number of known
protocols is evaluated, it becomes possible, given a new API
and a code corpus that uses this API, to scan through a corpus
quickly and evaluate the evidence in support of the different
possible protocols applicable to this API.
A similar case applies when a good body of bug-fix data is
available, in version history, and the etiology of the bugs is
well-known. In this case, we could use version control tools to
establish the provenance of different types of bugs, which are
a form of annotation d over the buggy code fragments.
Finally, assuming suitable models to enable calculation of
p(d | s) can be estimated, we write the alternative, probabilis
tic function ˆ
f to choose the most likely d:
ˆ
f(s) = argmax
d∈D
p(d | s)
We hasten to add that this Bayesian formulation is just to
provide an intuition on how corpus-based statistics can be used
in a principled way to aid in the construction of approximating
software engineering tools. In practice, a machine learning for
mulation (such as decision-trees, support-vector machines, or
even simple regression models) might prove more expedient.
VII. CONCLUSION
Although Linguists (sometimes) revel in the theoretical
complexities of natural languages, most “natural” utterances,
in practice, are quite regular and predictable and can in fact be
modeled by rigorous statistical methods. This fact has revolu
tionized computational linguistics. We offer evidence support
ing an analogous claim for software: though software in theory
can be very complex, in practice, it appears that even a fairly
simple statistical model can capture a surprising amount of
regularity in “natural” software. This simple model is strong
enough for us to quickly and easily implement a fairly power
ful suggestion engine that already improves a state-of-the-art
10
Draft!
stand action-oriented concerns,” in Proceedings, AOSD. ACM,
IDE. We also lay out a vision for future work. Specifically,
we believe that natural language translation approaches can
be used for code summarization and code search in a sym
metric way; we also hypothesize that the “naturalness” of
software implies a sort of “naturalness” of deeper properties
of software, such as those normally computed by powerful,
traditional software analysis tools. These are challenging tasks,
but with potentially high pay-off, and we hope others will join
us in this work.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Sparck Jones, “Natural language processing: a historical re
view,” Current Issues in Computational Linguistics: in Honour
of Don Walker (Ed Zampolli, Calzolari and Palmer), Amster
dam: Kluwer, 1994.
[2] M. Gabel and Z. Su, “A study of the uniqueness of source
code,” in Proceedings, ACM SIGSOFT FSE. ACM, 2010, pp.
147–156.
[3] P. Koehn, Statistical Machine Translation. Cambridge Uni
versity Press, 2010.
[4] C. Manning, H. Sch
”utze, and MITCogNet, Foundations of statistical natural lan
guage processing. MIT Press, 1999, vol. 59.
[5] M. Bruch, M. Monperrus, and M. Mezini, “Learning from
examples to improve code completion systems,” in Proceedings,
ACM SIGSOFT ESEC/FSE, 2009.
[6] M. Bruch, E. Bodden, M. Monperrus, and M. Mezini, “Ide 2.0:
collective intelligence in software development,” in Proceedings
of the FSE/SDP workshop on Future of software engineering
research. ACM, 2010, pp. 53–58.
[7] R. Robbes and M. Lanza, “Improving code completion with
program history,” Automated Software Engineering, vol. 17,
no. 2, pp. 181–212, 2010.
[8] S. Han, D. R. Wallace, and R. C. Miller, “Code completion
from abbreviated input,” in ASE. IEEE Computer Society,
2009, pp. 332–343.
[9] F. Jacob and R. Tairas, “Code template inference using language
models,” in Proceedings of the 48th Annual Southeast Regional
Conference, 2010.
[10] D. Hou and D. Pletcher, “An Evaluation of the Strategies of
Sorting, Filtering, and Grouping API Methods for Code Com
pletion,” in Proceedings, ICSM, 2011.
[11] D. Lawrie, C. Morrell, H. Feild, and D. Binkley, “What?s in a
name?; a study of identifiers,” Proceedings, ICPC, 2006.
[12] D. Binkley, M. Hearn, and D. Lawrie, “Improving identifier
informativeness using part of speech information,” in Proceed
ings, MSR. ACM, 2011.
[13] E. W. Hø st and B. M. Ø stvold, “Software language engi
neering,” D. Gaˇsevi´c, R. L¨ammel, and E. Wyk, Eds. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 2009, ch. The Java Programmer’s
Phrase Book.
[14] E. Høst and B. Østvold, “Debugging method names,” in Pro
ceedings ECOOP. Springer, 2009, pp. 294–317.
[15] G. Sridhara, E. Hill, D. Muppaneni, L. Pollock, and K. Vijay
Shanker, “Towards automatically generating summary com
ments for java methods,” in Proceedings, ASE, 2010.
[16] R. Buse and W. Weimer, “Automatically documenting program
changes,” in Proceedings, ASE. ACM, 2010, pp. 33–42.
[17] G. Sridhara, L. Pollock, and K. Vijay-Shanker, “Automatically
detecting and describing high level actions within methods,” in
Proceedings, ICSE, 2011.
[18] D. Shepherd, Z. Fry, E. Hill, L. Pollock, and K. Vijay-Shanker,
“Using natural language program analysis to locate and under
2007, pp. 212–224.
[19] R. S., G. Murphy, and A. Bradley, “Generating natural lan
guage summaries for cross-cutting source code concerns,” in
Proceedings, ICSM, 2011.
[20] D. Shepherd, L. Pollock, and T. Tourw´e, “Using language clues
to discover crosscutting concerns,” in ACM SIGSOFT Software
Engineering Notes, vol. 30, no. 4. ACM, 2005, pp. 1–6.
[21] S. J. K¨orner and W. F. Tichy, “Text to software,” in Proc.
FSE/SDP Workshop on the Future of Software Engineering
Research. ACM, Nov. 2010.
[22] S. Konrad and B. Cheng, “Real-time specification patterns,” in
Proceedings ICSE, 2005.
[23] C. Rolland and C. Proix, “A natural language approach for
requirements engineering,” in Advanced Information Systems
Engineering. Springer, 1992, pp. 257–277.
[24] T. Xie, S. Thummalapenta, D. Lo, and C. Liu, “Data mining
for software engineering,” IEEE Computer, vol. 42, no. 8, pp.
35–42, 2009.
[25] M. Gabel and Z. Su, “Javert: fully automatic mining of general
temporal properties from dynamic traces,” in Proceedings, ACM
SIGSOFT FSE. ACM,2008, pp. 339–349.
[26] D. Mandelin, L. Xu, R. Bod´ık, and D. Kimelman, “Jungloid
mining: helping to navigate the api jungle,” in ACM SIGPLAN
Notices, vol. 40, no. 6. ACM, 2005, pp. 48–61.
[27] B. Livshits and T. Zimmermann, “Dynamine: finding common
error patterns by mining software revision histories,” ACM
SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, vol. 30, no. 5, pp. 296
305, 2005.
[28] S. Kim, K. Pan, and E. Whitehead Jr, “Memories of bug fixes,”
in Proceedings, ACM SIGSOFT FSE. ACM, 2006, pp. 35–45.
[29] E. Linstead, S. Bajracharya, T. Ngo, P. Rigor, C. Lopes, and
P. Baldi, “Sourcerer: mining and searching internet-scale soft
ware repositories,” Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery,
vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 300–336, 2009.
[30] T.Zimmermann,P.Weisgerber, S. Diehl, and A. Zeller, “Mining
version histories to guide software changes,” in Proceedings
of the 26th international conference on Software Engineering.
IEEE Computer Society, 2004, pp. 563–572.
[31] S. Arnold, L. Mark, and J. Goldthwaite, “Programming by
voice, VocalProgramming,” in Proceedings, ACM Conf. on
Assistive technologies. ACM, 2000, pp. 149–155.
[32] A. Begel, “Spoken Language Support for Software Develop
ment,” in Proceedings, VL/HCC. IEEE Computer Society,
2004, pp. 271–272.
[33] T. Hubbell, D. Langan, and T. Hain, “A voice-activated syntax
directed editor for manually disabled programme rs,” in Pro
ceedings, ACM SIGACCESS. ACM, 2006.
[34] S. Mills, S. Saadat, and D. Whiting, “Is voice recognition the so
lution to keyboard-based RSI?” in Automation Congress, 2006.
WAC’06. World, 2006.
[35] J. Bellegarda, “Statistical language model adaptation: review
and perspectives,” Speech Communication, vol. 42, no. 1, pp.
93–108, 2004.
[36] G.Antoniol, G. Canfora, G. Casazza, A. D. Lucia, and E. Merlo,
“Recovering traceability links between code and documentation,”
IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 28, pp. 970
983, 2002.
[37] Z. Saul, V. Filkov, P. Devanbu, and C. Bird, “Recommending
random walks,” in Proceedings, ACM SIGSOFT ESEC/FSE.
ACM, 2007, pp. 15–24.
[38] M.Robillard, “Automatic generation of suggestions for program
investigation,” in ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes,
vol. 30, no. 5. ACM, 2005, pp. 11–20.
11
Draft!
[39] B. Livshits, A. Nori, S. Rajamani, and A. Banerjee, “Merlin:
large annotated corpus of english: The penn treebank,” Compu
specification inference for explicit information flow problems,”
in ACM SIGPLAN Notices, vol. 44, no. 6. ACM, 2009, pp.
75–86.
[40] M. Marcus, M. Marcinkiewicz, and B. Santorini, “Building a
tational linguistics, vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 313–330, 1993.
[41] A. Kittur, E. Chi, and B. Suh, “Crowdsourcing user studies with
mechanical turk,” in Proceedings, CHI. ACM, 2008.
12
Draft!
preprint arXiv:1904.09675.
Article
Resume2Vec: Transforming Applicant Tracking Systems with
Intelligent Resume Embeddings for Precise Candidate Matching
Ravi Varma Kumar Bevara 1,* , Nishith Reddy Mannuru 1
Ting Xiao 2,3,*
, Harshitha Pasem 1
, Sai Pranathi Karedla 2
, Sri Chandra Dronavalli 1
, Brady Lund 1
andSiddhanth Rupeshkumar 2
1
Department of Information Science, University of North Texas, Denton, TX 76205, USA;
,
nishithreddymannuru@my.unt.edu (N.R.M.); brady.lund@unt.edu (B.L.); harshithapasem@my.unt.edu (H.P.);
srichandradronavalli@my.unt.edu (S.C.D.)
2
3
*
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of North Texas, Denton, TX 76205, USA;
saipranathikaredla@my.unt.edu (S.P.K.); siddhanthrupeshkumar@my.unt.edu (S.R.)
The Anuradha and Vikas Sinha Department of Data Science, University of North Texas,
Denton, TX 76205, USA
Correspondence: ravivarmakumarbevara@my.unt.edu (R.V.K.B.); ting.xiao@unt.edu (T.X.)
Abstract: ConventionalApplicantTrackingSystems(ATSs)encounterconsiderableconstraints
in accurately aligning resumes with job descriptions (JD), especially in handling unstructured
data and intricate qualifications. We provide Resume2Vec, an innovative method that uti
lizes transformer-based deep learning models, including encoders (BERT, RoBERTa, and
DistilBERT) and decoders (GPT, Gemini, and Llama), to create embeddings for resumes and
job descriptions, employing cosine similarity for evaluation. Our methodology integrates
quantitative analysis via embedding-based evaluation with qualitative human assessment
across several professional fields. Experimental findings indicate that Resume2Vec outper
formed conventional ATS systems, achieving enhancements of up to 15.85% in Normalized
Discounted Cumulative Gain (nDCG) and 15.94% in Ranked Biased Overlap (RBO) scores,
Academic Editors: Young-Koo Lee,
Jinseok Chae and Joonho Kwon
Received: 22 January 2025
Revised: 14 February 2025
Accepted: 17 February 2025
Published: 18 February 2025
Citation: Bevara, R.V.K.;
Mannuru, N.R.; Karedla, S.P.;
Lund, B.; Xiao, T.; Pasem, H.;
Dronavalli, S.C.; Rupeshkumar, S.
Resume2Vec: Transforming Applicant
Tracking Systems with Intelligent
Resume Embeddings for Precise
Candidate Matching. Electronics 2025,
14, 794. https://doi.org/
10.3390/electronics14040794
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
especially within the mechanical engineering and health and fitness domains. Although
conventional the ATS exhibited slightly superior nDCG scores in operations management and
software testing, Resume2Vec consistently displayed a more robust alignment with human
preferences across the majority of domains, as indicated by the RBO metrics. This research
demonstrates that Resume2Vec is a powerful andscalable methodformatchingresumestojob
descriptions, effectively overcoming the shortcomings of traditional systems, while preserving
a high alignment with human evaluation criteria. The results indicate considerable promise
for transformer-based methodologies in enhancing recruiting technology, facilitating more
efficient and precise candidate selection procedures.
Keywords: resumescreening; applicant tracking system (ATS); large language models (LLMs);
transformer models; embeddings; BERT; GPT; Llama; job description; recruitment
1. Introduction
In today’s rapidly evolving job market, organizations face significant challenges in
identifying and recruiting top talent within a complex digital landscape. The digital
transformation of recruitment has led to an exponential increase in job applications, making
traditional, manual resume screening both inefficient and unreliable. With talent pools
growing exponentially, companies face the dual demands of maintaining competitive hiring
practices and ensuring that the candidates selected possess the precise skills necessary for
specialized roles. This challenge is amplified during economic downturns, where efficiency
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics14040794
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
2 of 18
and strategic hiring are essential to ensuring candidates align closely with organizational
needs. As organizations seek ways to streamline hiring processes, without sacrificing
candidate quality, there is an urgent need for intelligent systems capable of performing
nuanced assessments in a time-efficient manner. Traditional recruitment methods, which
often rely on manual processes, are struggling to keep pace, as they lack the capacity to
evaluate the nuanced qualifications required for today’s specialized roles, while processing
vast amounts of unstructured data.
To address these challenges, Applicant Tracking Systems (ATSs) have been widely
adopted to streamline recruitment processes by automating and organizing candidate
selection. While ATS platforms provide a degree of efficiency, their traditional reliance
on keyword matching to filter candidates limits their effectiveness, as this method fails to
capture context and often overlooks qualified candidates who do not use exact keywords.
The keyword-centric model further risks introducing systemic biases, as certain terms may
favor specific groups or backgrounds, which can inadvertently undermine diversity and
inclusion efforts within organizations. As a result, many ATS solutions miss out on under
standing the broader context of candidates’ experiences and skills, limiting their ability
to accurately assess suitability for specialized roles. Format dependency and difficulty
handling varying resume structures further exacerbate these issues, leading to potentially
inaccurate assessments of candidate suitability and biases in the selection process [1].
The integration of advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques, especially
transformer-based models, presents a compelling solution to enhance ATS capabilities.
These technologies, including encoders (BERT, RoBERTa, and DistilBERT) and decoders
(GPT, Gemini, and Llama), enable ATSs to move beyond keyword-based screening by
generating neural embeddings that capture the semantic relationships and context within
resumes and job descriptions. Embedding techniques allow systems to consider the full
scope of a candidate’s qualifications and experiences, recognizing similar competencies
expressed in varied terms or across different contexts. This shift offers organizations a
more holistic view of a candidate’s qualifications, supporting recruitment processes that are
more precise, inclusive, and scalable, even with large volumes of applications [2]. Unlike
traditional methods, embeddings can handle unstructured data and adapt to various
resume formats, addressing critical limitations in conventional ATS approaches [3].
This paper introduces Resume2Vec, an innovative framework designed to transform
applicant tracking systems using intelligent resume embeddings. The name Resume2Vec,
short for ‘Resume-to-Vector’, reflects its core function of converting textual resume data
into vectorized embeddings for improved semantic matching. Resume2Vec leverages
transformer models to analyze and match resumes with job descriptions more accurately,
allowing organizations to optimize talent-acquisition processes by enhancing matching
accuracy, reducing bias, and ensuring operational efficiency. Resume2Vec’s embedding
based approach goes beyond the surface-level text by identifying the underlying intent
and the relevance of candidates’ experiences to the requirements of specific roles. By eval
uating the effectiveness of different transformer architectures, such as encoders (BERT,
RoBERTa, and DistilBERT) and decoders (GPT, Gemini, and Llama), Resume2Vec demon
strates improvements over conventional ATS in terms of nuanced candidate evaluation
and performance scalability, offering a robust and dynamic solution for modern recruit
ment challenges. Through comprehensive experimentation, our research highlights the
advantages of embedding-based approaches, showcasing their consistency and adaptability
across large-scale applications, making Resume2Vec a significant advancement in the field
of recruitment technology.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
3 of 18
To guide our investigation, this study sought to address the following research questions:
• HowdoesResume2Veccomparetotraditional ATSs in terms of ranking accuracy and
alignment with human evaluations?
• HowcanResume2Vecbeeffectively integrated into existing recruitment systems to
enhance hiring efficiency and reduce bias?
These research questions align with our goal of evaluating Resume2Vec’s effectiveness
in improving candidate-job matching, ensuring fairer hiring practices, and optimizing
recruitment workflows. In the subsequent sections, we present a detailed review of related
work, followed by our methodology, experimental results, and discussion of findings.
2. Related Work
ApplicantTracking Systems(ATSs)areutilizedbyrecruiterstooverseejobapplications.
These systems vary in their functionalities, supporting various elements of recruiting,
including application tracking, candidate assessment, and engagement during the hiring
process [4].
The automation of resume screening and candidate matching has gained critical impor
tance as organizations face an overwhelming volume of job applications. The introduction
of various advanced natural language processing (NLP) techniques has demonstrated
potential in addressing these recruitment challenges. However, each approach brings
distinct contributions and limitations, creating an opportunity for our proposed framework,
Resume2Vec, to build on these advancements and address their shortcomings in scalability,
contextual accuracy, and bias mitigation.
A competence-level classification model was developed using context-aware trans
formers to categorize resumes by experience levels for Clinical Research Coordinator
roles [5]. This model effectively sorts candidates based on expertise but remains confined
to a single, narrowly defined job role, limiting its application across diverse categories.
Resume2Vec extends beyond this limitation by leveraging transformers to capture the
semantic context within resumes and job descriptions, making it adaptable to a broader
range of domains and job roles.
To address recruitment biases, several researchers have explored techniques to ’de
gender’ resumes by removing gender indicators, thereby reducing bias in automated
screening [6]. While this approach reduces explicit gender biases, it compromises candidate
information by excessively obfuscating resumes. In contrast, Resume2Vec maintains the
richness of candidate data by integrating embedding techniques that capture nuanced
professional skills, while incorporating bias mitigation strategies without sacrificing con
textual depth.
An automated screening solution using Sentence-BERT (S-BERT) was introduced
to rank resumes based on semantic similarity to job descriptions [7]. Although S-BERT
reduces dependency on keywords, it struggles with large datasets due to the computational
overhead. Resume2Vec optimizes transformer architectures to handle extensive datasets
efficiently, allowing for scalable deployment across larger organizations.
A resume shortlisting method using DistilBERT and YOLOv5, which focuses on
efficiently parsing specific skills from resumes, was proposed in another study [8]. While
their model improves resume parsing accuracy, it primarily extracts isolated skills, limiting
its capability to assess holistic candidate qualifications. Resume2Vec addresses this by
embedding the entire work history, qualifications, and experience of candidates, offering a
more comprehensive assessment for accurate job matching.
The ResumeAtlas framework, developed using BERT and Gemini, demonstrated
has high accuracy in categorizing resumes across 43 job categories [9]. However, it lacks
a direct matching mechanism with job descriptions, reducing its real-world application
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
4 of 18
in recruitment. Resume2Vec bridges this gap by combining resume embeddings with
job-specific requirements, ensuring a precise alignment of candidates’ competencies with
role demands.
The evolution of ATS capabilities has been further illustrated by studies employing
SVM and XGBoost for resume screening and ranking based on company requirements [10].
While effective with structured data, their reliance on uniform resume formats limits
adaptability with unstructured resumes. Resume2Vec overcomes this constraint by utilizing
transformers capable of processing both structured and unstructured resumes, enhancing
versatility across industries.
In examining AI’s impact on ATSs, researchers have outlined advancements in pars
ing, ranking, and bias mitigation, but highlighted the limitations of keyword-based ap
proaches [11]. Resume2Vec advances beyond keyword dependency by leveraging semantic
embeddings, providing a holistic assessment of candidates’ qualifications, and ensuring
compatibility with varied resume formats.
A Siamese Sentence-BERT model, conSultantBERT, was introduced to emphasize
cross-lingual matching for multilingual data compatibility [12]. Although it addresses lan
guage diversity, it is limited by supervised embeddings without industry-wide scalability.
Resume2Vec’s embedding techniques enable consistent, large-scale performance across
various industries and languages, facilitating broad applicability.
In tackling data sparsity, synthetic resumes were generated using a combination of
real and synthetic data to improve BERT and feedforward neural network classification
accuracy [13]. While this approach primarily benefits training, Resume2Vec’s optimized
embeddings demonstrate robust performance in actual candidate–job matching, reducing
dependency on synthetic data.
Keyword-based ranking using cosine similarity has been shown to be efficient, but it
fails to capture the complete context within resumes [14]. Resume2Vec addresses this
shortcoming by using embeddings that reflect a candidate’s full qualification spectrum,
providing a more contextually aware selection process.
For models with sequential dependencies, a Long short-term memory (LSTM)-based
resume screening model was proposed, enhancing accuracy but struggling with large
datasets due to high computational costs [15]. Resume2Vec uses transformer-based archi
tectures, which handle long sequences more efficiently, making it suitable for processing
high volumes of resumes.
A human-in-the-loop system leveraging ESCOXLM-R+ for multilingual resumematch
ing was introduced, combining manual corrections by recruiters with fine-tuned LLMs [16].
While innovative, the dependency on human input introduces inefficiencies and potential
biases. Resume2Vec automates the process, leveraging intelligent embeddings that general
ize across diverse datasets and requirements, eliminating the need for manual corrections.
A stacked model using K-Nearest Neighbors (kNN), Support Vector Classifier(SVC),
and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) demonstrated improved resume classification
and ranking performance but relied heavily on feature engineering [17]. In contrast, Re
sume2Vec employs transformer-based contextualized embeddings that dynamically encode
semantic relationships, outperforming models dependent on manual feature extraction.
A classification system based on knowledge-base-assisted matching and conceptual
segmentation was also developed, effectively routing resumes to occupational categories [18].
However, its reliance on predefined knowledge bases like O*NET introduced high runtime
complexity and error-prone segmentation. Resume2Vec eliminates this dependency by map
ping resumes and job descriptions directly into a shared vector space, enabling faster and
more precise classification.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
5 of 18
CNNswithGloveembeddings have been used to classify resumes into hierarchical cate
gories [19]. While CNNs offer hierarchical representations, they lack the contextual awareness
provided by transformer models, leading to suboptimal performance when handling complex
or ambiguous resume content. Resume2Vec’s transformer-based embeddings encapsulate
contextual and sequential nuances, delivering superior classification granularity.
Finally, studies have highlighted the ethical concerns and risks of bias perpetuation
in LLMs used for candidate screening, underscoring the need for fairness in AI-driven
recruitment [20]. Resume2Vec incorporates fairness-driven embedding techniques, leveraging
balanced training datasets and fine-tuning to minimize bias.
Frameworks such as those emphasizing summarization and grading of resumes
offer efficiency but lack the depth of semantic comparison between resumes and job
descriptions [21]. Resume2Vec, however, uses tailored embeddings for alignment tasks,
ensuring comprehensive matching and precise ranking.
These existing studies highlight advancements in automated resume screening andcandi
date matchingbutrevealsignificant limitations in handling unstructured data, scaling for large
datasets, and providing unbiased candidate evaluations. Resume2Vec addresses these issues
by integrating neural embeddings for nuanced semantic analysis, enabling efficient, large
scale deployment while supporting unbiased and precise candidate selection. This framework
represents a meaningful advancement in recruitment technology, offering enhanced context,
inclusivity, and scalability essential for meeting modern recruitment demands.
Building on these advancements, this study examines the research hypothesis that
transformer-based embeddings(BERT,RoBERTa, DistilBERT,GPT-4.0, Gemini, andLLaMA)
in Resume2Vec capture candidate-job relevance more effectively than traditional ATS
keyword-based filtering, leading to rankings that better align with human evaluations in
resume ranking.
3. Methodology
This study employedacomprehensivemixed-methodsapproachtoanalyzethemapping
of resumes to job descriptions (JDs). The methodology consisted of two phases: Phase 1 fo
cused onqualitative humanevaluations, while Phase 2assessed the performanceoftraditional
applicant tracking systems (ATS) and the proposed deep learning-based methods. Phase 1
established a foundational understanding of human decision-making in resume evaluations,
which waslater compared with quantifiable scoring mechanisms in Phase 2.
The overall architecture of the proposed system is depicted in Figure 1. The pipeline
begins with the collection of resumes from secondary sources, including Kaggle and job
descriptions through web scraping. Human evaluators performed manual assessments to
establish a baseline ranking for resumes across various job descriptions. Simultaneously,
traditional ATS methods processed the resumes to generate relevance scores.
The enhanced method, poweredbytransformer-based models such as BERT, RoBERTa,
DistilBERT, GPT-4.0, Gemini, and Llama, converts both resumes and job descriptions into
embeddings. These embeddings were computed to capture nuanced relationships between
resumes and jobdescriptions. Prior research has demonstrated that leveraging semantic em
beddings improves job–candidate matching by capturing contextual relationships beyond
explicit keyword matching, resulting in better alignment with recruiter preferences [22].
Our approach builds upon these findings by utilizing multiple transformer architectures to
enhance the robustness of automated resume screening. Results from a traditional ATS and
the enhanced method were compared through metrics such as Normalized Discounted
Cumulative Gain (nDCG) and Ranked Biased Overlap (RBO) to measure the quality of
rankings. The architecture also facilitated a comparative analysis to identify the optimal
resumes for each job description, as shown in the results section.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
6 of 18
Figure 1. Architecture of the proposed system for resume–JD mapping.
3.1. Data Collection
Thedataset for this study was compiled fromtwoprimarysources. Job descriptions (JDs)
wereobtained via webscraping andresumeswereacquiredfrompublicly accessible platforms
andsecondary data sources. The data gathering process was meticulously crafted to guarantee
diversity across professional sectors, pertinence to actual recruitment scenarios, and coherence
with the study’s aims.
Job descriptions were collected over a 5-month period from August to December 2023
and wereacquired through automated web scraping methods. A total of 2500 job descriptions
were extracted, covering 10 distinct professional domains. LinkedIn, a prominent professional
networking platform, was chosen as the major source because of its vast array of job postings
across many industries and locations. To extract job descriptions, we employed a combination
of Selenium andBeautifulSoup, leveraging their respective strengths in handling dynamic and
static web content. Selenium was used to navigate job listing websites that rely on JavaScript
to render content, allowing us to interact with web elements such as pagination, dropdown
filters, and scrolling mechanisms, to ensure the retrieval of complete listings. Once the desired
job postings had beenfully loaded in the browser, BeautifulSoup was then utilized to parse the
HTMLcontent and extract structured information, including job titles, descriptions, company
names, employment types, and locations. This hybrid approach was necessary due to the
dynamic nature of modern job boards, where data are not always readily available through
static HTML scraping alone. The scraping method focused on particular job categories,
like Health and Fitness, Operations Management, and Data Science, while also covering
listings for onsite, remote, and hybrid work environments. The essential information gathered
for each job posting comprised the job title, firm name, comprehensive job descriptions,
employment type, location, posting date, and a link to the original listing. This systematic
data collection guaranteed that the information encompassed a wide range of positions and
industry-specific needs.
Resumes were obtained from Kaggle’s publicly available datasets, last updated in
December 2023, yielding a dataset of 15,000 anonymized resumes. These resumes span
multiple industries and experience levels. Kaggle was chosen for its varied and publicly
accessible datasets, which comprise anonymized resumes featuring comprehensive qual
ifications, professional experiences, and skill sets. The incorporation of resumes from
Kaggle yielded a representative dataset for evaluation, as it exhibited diverse levels of
proficiency across several disciplines. To maintain the integrity and usability of the data,
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
7 of 18
stringent cleaning and validation protocols were implemented. Resumes with missing
critical fields (e.g., work history, education, or skills) were excluded from the final dataset.
Additionally, to mitigate bias, names and gender indicators were removed before analysis.
Duplicate posts and incomplete items were eliminated from job descriptions. Particular
emphasis was placed on preserving formatting consistency and ensuring that the extracted
information appropriately reflected the designated job categories. To ensure quality, entries
with missing or incomplete fields were omitted from the dataset for resumes.
This methodology for data collection, including scraping techniques and secondary
data platforms, yielded a high-quality dataset that facilitates the efficient assessment of
transformer-based approaches for matching resumes to job descriptions.
3.2. Data Preprocessing
To ensure the quality and consistency of the dataset, a multi-step text preprocessing
pipeline was implemented. This process was designed to clean, standardize, and pre
pare the text data for downstream analysis. The key steps in the cleaning process are
outlined below:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Removal of HTML Tags: HTMLelementspresent in the scraped job descriptions were
removed to retain only the core textual content.
Text Standardization: Text was converted to lowercase to ensure uniformity across
the dataset.
Stopword Removal: Common stopwords were removed using the Natural Language
Toolkit (NLTK) [23]. Additionally, domain-specific stopwords were included, to
improve relevance.
Special Characters and Non-ASCII Removal: Non-ASCII characters and special sym
bols were filtered out to maintain compatibility and readability.
Handling Numbers: While irrelevant digits (e.g., phone numbers) were removed, mean
ingful numeric data such as percentages, monetary values, and years were preserved.
Email Address Removal: To maintain privacy and reduce noise, email addresses were
stripped from the data.
Punctuation Removal: The punctuation was removed using tokenization techniques,
to focus on alphanumeric content.
This pipeline ensured that both resumes and job descriptions were effectively cleaned
and standardized, addressing common issues such as unstructured formatting, irrelevant
content, and noise. The preprocessing steps were essential for preparing the data for
subsequent qualitative and quantitative analyses, enabling accurate and reliable evaluation.
3.3. Phase 1: Qualitative Human Evaluation
In the first phase, a structured qualitative ranking methodology was employed to
capture the nuanced decision-making processes inherent in resume evaluations across five
distinct professional domains. Participants were recruited from a diverse pool of under
graduate, graduate, and professional students at a major, U.S.-based Research University.
This selection was motivated by their unique perspectives as both job seekers and future
hiring managers, as well as their diverse academic backgrounds. Students in professional
programs brought valuable industry experience and current knowledge of emerging field
requirements, contributing to a balanced and comprehensive evaluation framework [24].
To ensure domain-specific expertise in the resume evaluations, students were selected
based on their academic backgrounds and job search experience within corresponding
fields. For instance, graduate students in Mechanical Engineering were chosen to evaluate
resumes for Mechanical Engineering positions, as they possess firsthand knowledge of the
skills and qualifications required in the job market. Similarly, students from Health and
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
8 of 18
Fitness, Data Science, Software Testing, and Operations Management were recruited based
on their active job search status and familiarity with industry expectations. This approach
ensured that the evaluators had a strong understanding of job description requirements
and relevant candidate qualifications.
Forty participants were recruited across all domains in the dataset, which originally
consisted of ten categories. For the qualitative evaluation, five specific domains, including
Health and Fitness, Data Science, Software Testing, Mechanical Engineering, and Opera
tions Management, were selected. These domains were chosen to ensure the evaluation
process reflected consistent expertise and technical specificity, while maintaining a manage
able scope. Each of the selected domains represented distinct skill requirements, enabling a
focused and meaningful analysis of resume evaluation methodologies. Ten anonymized
resumes per domain were assessed against two carefully crafted job descriptions, designed
to reflect contemporary industry standards and requirements.
The evaluation process was conducted via Qualtrics and utilized a forced-choice rank
ing system, where participants ranked resumes from 1 to 10. This method emphasized
primary criteria, including but not limited to relevance of professional experience, align
ment of skills with job requirements, and overall candidate suitability. The forced-choice
approach has been demonstrated to mitigate response biases and produce more discrim
inating results in recruitment contexts [25]. Individual rankings were aggregated using
the Borda Count method, which assigns scores based on rank positions and produces a
collective ordering. The Borda score B(c) for a candidate c was calculated as
B(c) = ∑
i
(n −ri(c))
(1)
where n is the total number of candidates (10), and ri(c) represents the rank assigned
by participant i. Aggregated rankings were validated through Kendall’s coefficient of
concordance (W), which ranged from 0.68 to 0.82 across domains, indicating substantial
agreement among evaluators. To ensure thoughtful and deliberate evaluations, partici
pants were required to justify their top-five rankings. Optional comment fields captured
additional insights, such as the interpretation of technical skills versus practical experience.
These qualitative evaluations served as the human benchmark against which the automated
methods in Phase 2 were compared.
3.4. Phase 2: Quantitative Evaluation and Model Selection
For this phase, six transformer models were utilized to generate embeddings for re
sumes and job descriptions (JDs): BERT, RoBERTa, DistilBERT, GPT-4.0, Gemini, and Llama.
These models were chosen for their proven capability in capturing nuanced relationships
in textual data, with encoder models focusing on extracting contextual embeddings and de
coder models enhancing generative capabilities. The inclusion of encoder–decoder models,
such as GPT-4.0 and Gemini, ensured that contextual understanding and sequence-level
nuances were preserved, as discussed in [26]. The choice of these models was further
motivated by their ability to handle both structured and unstructured data, critical for
robust resume–JD matching.
Cosine similarity was selected as the primary metric for comparing embeddings, due
to its effectiveness in measuring the angular distance between vectors. This metric is
particularly suited for high-dimensional embeddings, as it emphasizes the direction of
vectors rather than their magnitude, making it robust to variations in embedding scales.
Mathematically, cosine similarity between two vectors u and v is defined as
Cosine Similarity = u·v
(2)
∥u∥∥v∥
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
9 of 18
where u · v represents the dot product of the vectors, while ∥u∥ and ∥v∥ denote their
magnitudes. This metric was chosen due to its wide applicability in text similarity tasks
and its prior use in bias analysis studies [27].
The preprocessing steps involved cleaning the dataset and converting the textual data
into embeddings using the six selected transformer models. Scatter plots were generated
for both resumes and JDs, to visualize the embeddings and assess their ability to capture
contextual nuances and domain-specific information.
As shown in Figures 2 and 3, the embeddings exhibited clustering patterns based on
domain similarities, indicating that the models effectively captured contextual relationships.
Figure 2. Scatter plot of resume embeddings across domains.
Figure 3. Scatter plot of job description embeddings across domains.
Electronics2025,14,794 10of18
Toevaluatetheperformanceofthedifferenttransformermodels,adownstreamclassi
ficationtaskwasconducted,inspiredbytheCensus2Vecframework[28].Thistaskinvolved
predictingthecategoryofresumesbasedonembeddings,withthreeembeddingoptions
considered: resumeembeddings, JDembeddings, andstackedembeddings. Resume
embeddingswerechosenduetotheirhigherdataavailabilityfortesting.Accuracywas
usedastheevaluationmetric,andtheresultsindicatethatwhileLlamademonstratedthe
highestaccuracyacrossmultipleclassificationalgorithms,achievingthebestperformance
inRandomForest(95.5%),GradientBoosting(95.5%),andLogisticRegression(95.5%),
Geminiperformedcompetitively,withanotableaccuracyof90.5%usingSVM.These
resultssuggestthatLlamaprovidedthemostconsistentandoptimalperformanceacross
thedifferentclassificationmethods,asshowninTable1.
Table1.Accuracycomparisonoftransformermodelsacrossclassificationalgorithms.Boldedvalues
indicatethehighestaccuracyachievedineachcolumnforthecorrespondingclassificationalgorithm.
Model SVM Random
Forest
Gradient
Boosting
Logistic
Regression
BERT 78.5% 94.5% 91.3% 95.2%
RoBERTa 70.5% 93.5% 92.5% 94.5%
DistilBERT 83.0% 94.5% 89.5% 95.5%
GPT-4.0 90.5% 91.0% 55.0% 89.5%
Gemini 91.0% 94.0% 73.5% 90.5%
Llama 83.5% 95.5% 95.5% 95.5%
Tovalidatetheresults,dataaugmentationwasperformed,andembeddingswereana
lyzedwithandwithoutPrincipalComponentAnalysis(PCA).AsshowninFigures4and5,
PCAimprovedtheperformanceofsomemodels,butLlamaconsistentlydeliveredthebest
resultsacrossallscenarios.
UsingtheLlamamodel,human-evaluateddatawerealsoconvertedtoembeddings,
andcosinesimilaritywascomputedtoranktheresumes. Thefinalrankingorderwas
comparedacrossthreescenarios:humanevaluation,traditionalATS,andtheproposed
method.MetricssuchasNormalizedDiscountedCumulativeGain(nDCG)andRanked
BiasedOverlap(RBO)wereemployedtoevaluatetheperformance.
ThenDCGmetric,calculatedas
nDCG=DCG
IDCG, whereDCG=
p
∑
i=1
2reli−1
log2(i+1) (3)
measuredthequalityofrankedlists. Similarly,RBO,arankingsimilaritymeasure,pro
videdfurtherinsightsintoalignmentwithhumanrankings. Theresults,asshownin
Tables2and3,demonstratedthattheproposedmethodoutperformedthetraditionalATS
inmostdomainsforthisstudy.
Table2.ComparisonofnDCGscoresacrossdomains.
Domain nDCG(ATS) nDCG(Proposed)
DataScience 0.88 0.89
HealthandFitness 0.83 0.87
MechanicalEngineering 0.82 0.95
OperationsManager 0.90 0.86
SoftwareTesting 0.96 0.90
Note:BoldvaluesindicatethebestnDCGscoreforeachdomain.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
11 of 18
Figure 4. Model accuracy comparison without PCA.
Figure 5. Model accuracy comparison with PCA.
Electronics2025,14,794 12of18
Table3.ComparisonofRBOscoresacrossdomains.
Domain RBO(ATS) RBO(Proposed)
DataScience 0.84 0.92
HealthandFitness 0.69 0.80
MechanicalEngineering 0.88 1.00
OperationsManager 0.86 0.97
SoftwareTesting 1.00 0.96
Note:BoldvaluesindicatethebestRBOscoreforeachdomain.
4.ResultsandEvaluation
TheevaluationofResume2VecandtheATSwasconductedusingtworankingmetrics,
namelyNormalizedDiscountedCumulativeGain(nDCG)andRank-BiasedOverlap(RBO),
acrossfivedistinctjobcategories:DataScience,HealthandFitness,MechanicalEngineering,
OperationsManagement,andSoftwareTesting.Theresultsprovideaninsightintothe
comparativeperformanceofthetwoapproachesandhighlightthestrengthsofResume2Vec
inmostcategories,asshowninFigure6.
nDCG RBO
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Score
0.89
0.92
0.88
0.84
Comparison for Data Science
nDCG RBO
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Score
0.87
0.80
0.83
0.69
Comparison for Health and Fitness
nDCG RBO
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Score
0.95
1.00
0.82
0.88
Comparison for Mechanical Engineer
nDCG RBO
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Score
0.86
0.97
0.90
0.86
Comparison for Operations Manager
nDCG RBO
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Score
0.90
0.96 0.96
1.00
Comparison for Software Testing
Res2Vec ATS
Figure6.ComparisonofResume2VecandATSperformanceacrossvariousmetrics(nDCGandRBO)
fordifferentjobcategories.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
13 of 18
In the Data Science category, Resume2Vec demonstrated a slight advantage in both
metrics. It achieved an nDCG score of 0.89 compared to the ATS’s score of 0.88, reflecting a
marginal improvement of 1.14%. For the RBO metric, Resume2Vec outperformed the ATS
with a score of 0.92, representing a significant 9.52% improvement over the ATS’s score
of 0.84. These results indicate that Resume2Vec aligned better with human rankings in
this domain.
For Health and Fitness, Resume2Vec exhibited a stronger advantage. Its nDCG score
was 0.87, outperforming the ATS’s score of 0.83 by 4.82%. The improvement was even more
pronounced for the RBO metric, where Resume2Vec achieved a score of 0.80, outperform
ing the ATS’s score of 0.69 by 15.94%. These findings highlight Resume2Vec’s ability to
consistently produce rankings that were more closely aligned with human judgments in
this category.
The largest performance gains for Resume2Vec were observed in the Mechanical
Engineering category. It achieved an nDCG score of 0.95, which was 15.85% higher than
the ATS’s score of 0.82. In terms of RBO, Resume2Vec achieved a perfect score of 1.00,
reflecting a 13.64% improvement over the ATS’s score of 0.88. These results underscore the
effectiveness of Resume2Vec in capturing human preferences in highly technical fields like
Mechanical Engineering.
In the Operations Management category, the ATS showed a marginal advantage in
the nDCGmetric, achieving a score of 0.90 compared to Resume2Vec’s score of 0.86. This
difference represents a slight 4.44% improvement for the ATS. However, Resume2Vec
still outperformed the ATS in the RBO metric, achieving a score of 0.97 compared to the
ATS’s score of 0.86, marking a 12.79% improvement. This marginal edge for the ATS in
nDCG could be attributed to the domain’s inherent nature, where operational workflows
and performance evaluations may favor the ATS’s ability to prioritize direct relevance.
In contrast, Resume2Vec excelled in preserving the relative ranking order, as evidenced by
its consistently higher RBO scores. This suggests that Resume2Vec is better suited for tasks
requiring fine-grained rank alignment, while ATSs may provide value in environments
where specific job–requirement matching is paramount.
In the Software Testing category, the ATS again demonstrated a slight advantage in
nDCG, achieving a score of 0.96 compared to Resume2Vec’s score of 0.90, resulting in
a 6.25% improvement. Despite this, Resume2Vec achieved a perfect score of 1.00 in the
RBO metric, reflecting a 4.17% improvement over the ATS’s score of 0.96. The stronger
nDCG performance of the ATS in this category might have stemmed from how resumes
and job descriptions in software testing often emphasize keyword matches or technical
skills explicitly listed in job requirements. The ATS’s reliance on keyword relevance likely
contributed to this outcome. However, Resume2Vec’s superior RBO score indicates that it
provided better alignment with overall human preferences, which are not solely dictated
by keyword matches but rather by broader contextual factors.
The aforementioned results substantiate our research hypothesis that the transformer
based embeddings in Resume2Vec more successfully capture candidate–job relevance com
pared to conventional ATS keyword-based filtering. Resume2Vec consistently exhibited
excellent performance in rank-based concordance with human judgments, as evidenced
by its elevated RBO ratings across all job categories. Although the ATS demonstrated
marginal benefits in nDCG for Operations Management and Software Testing, these were
context-dependent and did not surpass Resume2Vec’s overarching advantages in preserv
ing human-aligned rankings. The notable performance improvements noted in Mechanical
Engineering, Health and Fitness, and Data Science further substantiate that embedding
based techniques offer a more comprehensive depiction of candidate–job compatibility
than inflexible keyword-based filtering. The findings substantiate the assertion that Re
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
14 of 18
sume2Vec’s transformer-based embeddings produce rankings that more closely correspond
with human assessments, hence confirming the fundamental research hypothesis.
Overall, the results show that Resume2Vec consistently outperformed the ATS in the
RBO metric across all categories. This suggests that Resume2Vec is better at maintaining
agreement with human preferences in ranking tasks. While Resume2Vec also demonstrated
superior nDCG scores in most categories, the ATS showed slight improvements in nDCG
in two domains: Operations Management and Software Testing. These instances of the
ATS’s better performance were likely influenced by domain-specific characteristics, such
as the explicitness of technical requirements or the prevalence of structured, keyword
driven evaluation criteria in resumes and job descriptions. However, these advantages are
narrow and do not diminish Resume2Vec’s broader strengths. Resume2Vec consistently
demonstrated its ability to align with more nuanced human judgments, as reflected in its
consistently higher RBO scores.
Furthermore, the findings suggest that Resume2Vec is a highly effective approach for
ranking tasks, particularly in scenarios where maintaining the relative order of rankings
is critical. Even in domains where the ATS shows slight advantages, these were limited
to specific metrics and contexts, whereas Resume2Vec offered a more comprehensive
and reliable performance across multiple job categories. Its performance across multiple
domains underscores its potential for broader adoption in resume-ranking applications,
while also pointing to opportunities for further optimization in specific contexts.
5. Discussion
The findings of this study underscore the transformative potential of Resume2Vec in
redefining modern recruitment processes by addressing critical limitations of conventional
Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS). By employing transformer-based architectures such
as BERT, RoBERTa, DistilBERT, GPT-4, Gemini, and Llama, Resume2Vec demonstrates
a clear advantage in aligning candidate profiles with job descriptions through semantic
embedding techniques. Unlike traditional ATS platforms that rely heavily on keyword
matching, Resume2Vec captures nuanced contextual relationships, enabling a more holistic
assessment of candidates’ qualifications.
Resume2Vec’s performance gains were particularly pronounced in technical domains
like Mechanical Engineering and Health and Fitness, where it outperformed traditional the
ATS by significant margins in metrics including Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain
(nDCG) and Rank-Biased Overlap (RBO). These findings highlight Resume2Vec’s ability
to process complex and unstructured resumes effectively. Additionally, Resume2Vec’s
embeddings consistently aligned with human preferences, as indicated by higher RBO
scores across all evaluated domains. This alignment with human judgment underscores
the framework’s capability to mitigate the systemic biases often associated with keyword
based ATS systems. By focusing on neural embeddings, Resume2Vec promotes diversity
and inclusion, ensuring that candidates are evaluated based on the full spectrum of their
qualifications, rather than narrowly defined terms.
However, the study also identified specific contexts where Resume2Vec demonstrated
room for improvement. In domains like operations management and software testing,
the traditional ATS systems marginally outperformed Resume2Vec in nDCG scores. This
outcome can be attributed to domain-specific characteristics, where job descriptions often
rely on explicitly stated keywords or technical skills, making the ATS’s keyword matching
slightly more effective. This highlights the need for further optimization in embedding
techniques to enhance their adaptability in domains where structured, keyword-driven
evaluations dominate.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
15 of 18
While the use of students as evaluators provided valuable insights, due to their direct
exposure to job search processes and familiarity with industry expectations, it presents
certain limitations. Unlike HR professionals, students may lack comprehensive hiring
experience, particularly in assessing soft skills, long-term career trajectories, and company
specific hiring nuances. Additionally, their evaluations may reflect a job-seeker perspective
rather than that of a recruiter, potentially influencing ranking decisions.
To address this, future studies should incorporate HR professionals as a validation
group to compare their assessments with student rankings. This would help determine the
degree of alignment between the two evaluator groups and refine the model’s effectiveness
in replicating professional hiring judgments. By integrating HR insights, Resume2Vec
could further enhance its alignment with real-world recruitment decision-making, while
maintaining its efficiency in candidate screening.
Despite these limitations, the current approach aligns with the broader goal of demon
strating Resume2Vec’s ability to mirror human decision-making in resume evaluations.
By leveraging domain-specific student evaluators, this study effectively showcases how
the model captures nuanced criteria that go beyond keyword matching, supporting its
application as an intelligent resume screening tool. The findings indicate that while student
evaluations serve as an effective proxy for human assessment, further validation with
experienced hiring professionals will strengthen the generalizability and credibility of the
model’s performance.
From a practical standpoint, Resume2Vec offers significant advantages for real-world
recruitment workflows. The system can be deployed as an API service, allowing seamless
integration into existing ATS platforms, or as a standalone tool for HR teams to manually
upload resumes and job descriptions. For companies that utilize platforms like LinkedIn,
Greenhouse, or Workday, Resume2Vec can function as a plug-in for retrieving candidate
profiles and ranking them based on semantic similarity. Unlike traditional ATSs that
require extensive manual configuration, Resume2Vec operates with pretrained transformer
models, enabling rapid deployment with minimal set up effort. By leveraging transformer
embeddings, the system reduces recruiter workload, improves candidate–job alignment,
and enhances scalability in high-volume hiring scenarios. Additionally, Resume2Vec
contributes to fairer hiring practices by mitigating the biases present in keyword-based
filtering, ensuring a more equitable selection process.
These practical implications align with the broader evolution of AI-enabled recruit
ment. Recent studies have emphasized that AI-driven tools have transitioned from a
“nice-to-have” feature to a strategic necessity in talent acquisition, due to the increasing
importance of human capital in organizational success [29]. AI recruitment tools are now
central to digital hiring strategies, as they enable companies to screen large applicant
pools efficiently, while reducing the cognitive biases that impact human decision-making.
By integrating Resume2Vec into recruitment workflows, organizations can achieve similar
improvements in hiring speed, accuracy, and fairness.
Beyond its technical advantages, Resume2Vec has significant managerial implica
tions. Traditional ATSs often filter candidates based on rigid criteria, potentially elimi
nating strong applicants who use different terminology in their resumes. The ability of
Resume2Vec to capture semantic meaning helps HR managers make more data-driven
decisions, ensuring that recruitment efforts are aligned with long-term organizational goals
rather than arbitrary keyword filters. Moreover, AI-driven recruitment frameworks have
been shown to improve candidate experiences, as fairer and more transparent selection
mechanisms enhance job seekers’ perceptions of employers. This fosters stronger employer
branding, making companies more attractive to high-quality candidates.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
16 of 18
Additionally, Resume2Vec can play a crucial role in assessing cross-cultural compati
bility, a critical factor in modern hiring. Organizations are increasingly recognizing that
successful hiring goes beyond matching skills to job descriptions—it involves ensuring that
candidates fit within the team’s cultural dynamics and communication styles. AI-based
tools are now being explored for their potential to evaluate alignment with organizational
culture, which can help mitigate turnover and improve team cohesion [30]. Resume2Vec
can be adapted to incorporate culture-fit metrics, offering a more holistic approach to hiring
that extends beyond hard skills to consider interpersonal and team dynamics.
The scalability of Resume2Vec is another critical advantage. By leveraging transformer
based architectures capable of processing large-scale datasets, Resume2Vec supports ef
ficient recruitment workflows without sacrificing accuracy or alignment with human
preferences. Moreover, its ability to handle unstructured data and adapt to diverse resume
formats makes it highly versatile across industries. This versatility positions Resume2Vec
as a robust tool for organizations navigating competitive talent-acquisition landscapes.
Despite its successes, several areas warrant future exploration. Enhancing the inter
pretability of embeddings, particularly in sensitive domains, could improve recruiter trust
and adoption. Additionally, integrating multimodal data—such as combining resumes
with interview transcripts or performance reviews—could further refine the accuracy of
candidate evaluations. Addressing computational efficiency in handling large datasets and
expanding the framework’s capabilities for multilingual and cross-cultural contexts also
represent valuable avenues for improvement.
In conclusion, this discussion reaffirms Resume2Vec’s potential to revolutionize re
cruitment by providing an inclusive, scalable, and context-aware solution for matching
candidates to job descriptions. While challenges remain in specific contexts, the frame
work’s adaptability and performance gains highlight its promise as a next-generation
recruitment tool, paving the way for more equitable and efficient hiring practices.
6. Conclusions
Resume2Vec represents a significant advancement in recruitment technology, address
ing the limitations of conventional ATS platforms through the integration of transformer
based models like BERT, RoBERTa, DistilBERT, GPT-4, Gemini, and Llama. By employing
neural embeddings to capture semantic relationships between resumes and job descrip
tions, Resume2Vec demonstrates superior performance in aligning candidate profiles with
organizational requirements. Its ability to process unstructured data and adapt to varying
resume formats underscores its versatility across diverse professional domains.
The framework’s consistent outperformance of traditional ATSs in metrics such
as nDCG and RBO highlights its capacity to deliver nuanced, human-aligned evalua
tions. While domains like Mechanical Engineering and Health and Fitness showcased
the strongest gains, areas such as operations management and software testing revealed
opportunities for further optimization. These findings reinforce Resume2Vec’s role in
fostering diversity, reducing bias, and enhancing recruitment efficiency on a large scale.
The empirical results robustly supported our research hypothesis, indicating that
the transformer-based embeddings in Resume2Vec surpass conventional ATS keyword
based filtering in assessing candidate–job relevance. In various categories, Resume2Vec
demonstrated greater concordance with human assessments, as indicated by its elevated
RBOratings. Although the ATS maintained some advantages in nDCG in certain domains,
Resume2Vec’s consistently superior rank-based agreement demonstrates that embedding
based methodologies effectively capture more profound semantic connections between
resumes and job descriptions. These findings confirm that utilizing transformer-based
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
17 of 18
embeddings improves recruiting procedures by offering a more thorough and human
centric evaluation framework, reinforcing the fundamental premise of this study.
Future research could explore deeper integrations of multimodal data, such as incorpo
rating structured candidate profiles and recruiter feedback alongside resumes, to refine the
shortlisting process before candidates reach the interview stage. Since ATSs play a crucial
role in pre-screening, integrating additional sources of information could improve decision
making accuracy, while ensuring fairer evaluations. Additionally, Resume2Vec could be
extended to assess cross-cultural compatibility, helping organizations determine whether a
candidate aligns with the values, communication styles, and team dynamics of the company.
This would move beyond purely skill-based matching, offering a more holistic approach
to recruitment. Addressing these aspects will further enhance Resume2Vec’s applicability
in modern hiring environments. By addressing these areas, Resume2Vec can continue to
refine its capabilities, ensuring its relevance in an ever-evolving job market. As organiza
tions prioritize inclusive and scalable hiring practices, Resume2Vec offers a transformative
solution to meet modern recruitment challenges with precision and adaptability.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, R.V.K.B.; methodology, R.V.K.B., N.R.M. and S.R.; writing
original draft, R.V.K.B., N.R.M. and S.P.K.; writing—review and editing, R.V.K.B., N.R.M., S.P.K., B.L.
and T.X; visualization, R.V.K.B. and N.R.M.; data curation, H.P., S.C.D. and S.P.K.; resources, S.P.K.;
supervision, B.L. and T.X.; project administration, B.L. and T.X. All authors have read and agreed to
the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration
of Helsinki and approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the University of North Texas
(protocol code IRB-24-372, approved on 5 August 2024).
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.
Data Availability Statement: The data used in this study cannot be shared or made publicly available
due to ethical and privacy considerations. As the data collection process was conducted under
Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, access to the dataset is restricted to ensure compliance
with participant confidentiality and ethical research guidelines.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Albaroudi, E.; Mansouri, T.; Alameer, A. A Comprehensive Review of AI Techniques for Addressing Algorithmic Bias in Job
Hiring. AI 2024, 5, 383–404. [CrossRef]
Strohmeier, S.; Piazza, F. Artificial intelligence techniques in human resource management—A conceptual exploration. In
Intelligent Techniques in Engineering Management; Intelligent Systems Reference Library; Springer: Cham, Switzertland; 2015;
Volume 87, pp. 149–172. [CrossRef]
Le Q.; Mikolov, T. Distributed representations of sentences and documents. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning, PMLR, Beijing, China, 22–24 June 2014; pp. 1188–1196.
AL-Qassem, A.H.; Agha, K.; Vij, M.; Elrehail, H.; Agarwal, R. Leading Talent Management: Empirical investigation on Applicant
Tracking System (ATS) on e-Recruitment Performance. In Proceedings of the 2023 International Conference on Business Analytics
for Technology and Security (ICBATS), Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 7–8 March 2023; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2023; pp. 1–5.
Li, C.; Fisher, E.; Thomas, R.; Pittard, S.; Hertzberg, V.; Choi, J.D.Competence-level prediction and resume & job description
matching using context-aware transformer models. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2011.02998.
Parasurama, P.; Sedoc, J. Degendering Resumes for Fair Algorithmic Resume Screening. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2112.08910.
Deshmukh, A.; Raut, A. Enhanced Resume Screening for Smart Hiring Using Sentence-Bidirectional Encoder Representations
from Transformers (S-BERT). Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl. 2024, 15, 8. [CrossRef]
James, V.; Kulkarni, A.; Agarwal, R. Resume Shortlisting and Ranking with Transformers. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Intelligent Systems and Machine Learning, Hyderabad, India, 16–17 December 2022; Springer Nature Switzerland:
Cham, Switzerland, 2022; pp. 99–108.
Electronics 2025, 14, 794
18 of 18
9.
Heakl, A.; Mohamed, Y.; Mohamed, N.; Elsharkawy, A.; Zaky, A. ResuméAtlas: Revisiting Resume Classification with Large-Scale
Datasets and Large Language Models. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2024, 244, 158–165. [CrossRef]
10. Vishaline, A.R.; Kumar, R.K.; Sai Pramod, V.V.N.S.; Vignesh, K.V.K.; Sudheesh, P. An ML-based Resume Screening and Ranking
System. In Proceedings of the 2024 International Conference on Signal Processing, Computation, Electronics, Power and
Telecommunication (IConSCEPT), Karaikal, India, 4–5 July 2024; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2024; pp. 1–6.
11. Minvielle, L. How AI Is Shaping Applicant Tracking Systems. Geekflare. 2025. Available online: https://geekflare.com/guide/
ats-and-ai/ (accessed on 15 January 2025).
12. Lavi, D.; Medentsiy, V.; Graus, D. consultantbert: Fine-tuned siamese sentence-bert for matching jobs and job seekers.
arXiv 2021, arXiv:2109.06501.
13. Skondras, P.; Zervas, P.; Tzimas, G. Generating Synthetic Resume Data with Large Language Models for Enhanced Job Description
Classification. Future Internet 2023, 15, 363. [CrossRef]
14. Pendhari, H.; Rodricks, S.; Patel, M.; Emmatty, S.; Pereira, A. Resume Screening using Machine Learning. In Proceedings of the
2023 International Conference on Data Science, Agents & Artificial Intelligence (ICDSAAI), Chennai, India, 21–23 December 2023;
IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2023; pp. 1–5.
15. Bharadwaj, S.; Varun, R.; Aditya, P.S.; Nikhil, M.; Babu, G.C. Resume Screening using NLP and LSTM. In Proceedings of the 2022
International Conference on Inventive Computation Technologies (ICICT), Lalitpur, Nepal, 20–22 July 2022; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ,
USA, 2022; pp. 238–241.
16. Kavas, H.; Serra-Vidal, M.; Wanner, L. Using Large Language Models and Recruiter Expertise for Optimized Multilingual Job
Offer–Applicant CV Matching. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Third International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
Jeju, Republic of Korea, 3–9 August 2024; pp. 8696–8699.
17. Ransing, R.; Mohan, A.; Emberi, N.B.; Mahavarkar, K. Screening and Ranking Resumes using Stacked Model. In Proceedings
of the 2021 5th International Conference on Electrical, Electronics, Communication, Computer Technologies and Optimization
Techniques (ICEECCOT), Mysuru, India, 10–11 December 2021; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2021; pp. 643–648.
18. Zaroor, A.; Maree, M.; Sabha, M. JRC: A job post and resume classification system for online recruitment. In Proceedings of the
2017 IEEE 29th International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence (ICTAI), Boston, MA, USA, 6–8 November 2017;
IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2017; pp. 780–787.
19. Nasser, S.; Sreejith, C.; Irshad, M. Convolutional Neural Network with Word Embedding Based Approach for Resume Classifica
tion. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Emerging Trends and Innovations In Engineering And Technological
Research (ICETIETR), Ernakulam, India, 11–13 July 2018; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2018; pp. 1–6.
20. Koh, N.H.; Plata, J.; Chai, J. BAD: BiAs Detection for Large Language Models in the context of candidate screening.
arXiv 2023, arXiv:2305.10407.
21. Gan, C.; Zhang, Q.; Mori, T. Application of LLM agents in recruitment: A novel framework for resume screening.
arXiv 2024, arXiv:2401.08315. [CrossRef]
22. Pombo, L.M. Landing on the Right Job: A Machine Learning Approach to Match Candidates with Jobs Applying Semantic
Embeddings. Master’s Thesis, Universidade NOVA de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal, 2019.
23. Bird, S.; Klein, E.; Loper, E. Natural Language Processing with Python; O’Reilly Media, Inc.: Newton, MA, USA, 2009.
24. Willis, K.L.; Holmes, B.; Burwell, N. Improving Graduate Student Recruitment, Retention, and Professional Development During
COVID-19. Am. J. Educ. Res. 2022, 10, 81–84. [CrossRef]
25. Hung,S.-P.; Huang,H.-Y. Forced-Choice Ranking Models for Raters’ Ranking Data. J. Educ. Behav. Stat. 2022, 47, 603–634. [CrossRef]
26. Shahriar, S.; Lund, B.D.; Mannuru, N.R.; Arshad, M.A.; Hayawi, K.; Bevara, R.V.K.; Mannuru, A.; Batool, L. Putting GPT-4.0 to the
Sword: AComprehensive Evaluation of Language, Vision, Speech, and Multimodal Proficiency. Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 7782. [CrossRef]
27. Bevara, R.V.K.; Mannuru, N.R.; Karedla, S.P.; Xiao, T. Scaling Implicit Bias Analysis Across Transformer-Based Language Models
Through Embedding Association Test and Prompt Engineering. Appl. Sci. 2024, 14, 3483. [CrossRef]
28. Bevara, R.V.K.; Wagenvoord, I.; Hosseini, F.; Sharma, H.; Nunna, V.; Xiao, T. Census2Vec: Enhancing Socioeconomic Predictive Models
with Geo-Embedded Data; Intelligent Systems Conference; Springer Nature Switzerland: Cham, Switzerland, 2024; pp. 626–640.
29. Black,J.S.; van Esch, P. AI-enabled recruiting: What is it and how should a manager use it? Bus. Horizons 2020, 63, 215–226. [CrossRef]
30. Dospinescu, O.; Dospinescu, N. Workaholism in IT: An analysis of the influence factors. Adm. Sci. 2020, 10, 96. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
Matching GitHub developer profiles to job
advertisements
Claudia Hauff
Delft University of Technology
the Netherlands
Email: c.hauff@tudelft.nl
Abstract—GitHub is a social coding platform that enables
developers to efficiently work on projects, connect with other
developers, collaborate and generally “be seen” by the commu
nity. This visibility also extends to prospective employers and HR
personnel who may use GitHub to learn more about a developer’s
skills and interests. We propose a pipeline that automatizes this
process and automatically suggests matching job advertisements
to developers, based on signals extracting from their activities on
GitHub.
I. INTRODUCTION
In order to find potential employers, developers search for
job openings in various online job portals and compare their
desires, experiences and activities with the described position.
This is a cumbersome process as many job advertisements
are lengthy, mentioning a plethora of programming languages,
libraries and techniques that the perfect candidate should
be familiar with. Moreover, each of these items is usually
conditioned on the number of years of experience or the level
of expertise and may fall into the “required” or “preferred”
skill category. Over the years, job advertisements have asked
for a larger number of skills from prospective employees.
This has led to a situation where a developer matching half
of the described requirements may actually be a very well
qualified candidate for the advertised position. In such cases
having insights into how well other potential candidates fit
the position may help the developer to judge whether to
apply or not. Another complicating factor is the fact that
job advertisements’ writing style may be influenced by the
numerous people involved in the creation of a job profile
(managers, developers, HR personnel, etc.). Here a “semantic
gap” may exist between search terms a developer is using to
find suitable advertisements in job portals and the terms that
actually appear in an advertisement.
Business-oriented social networks, such as LinkedIn1, are
using recommender engines to push job advertisements to their
users (in addition to the traditional pull-based model where
users are actively searching among the available advertise
ments). Recommender algorithms determine the similarity be
tween pairs of user and advertisement profiles and recommend
the job to the user if the similarity is high. While this process
moves the burden of determining the degree of matching away
from the user, it is limited in its abilities due to the lack of
1https://www.linkedin.com/
Georgios Gousios
Radboud University Nijmegen
the Netherlands
Email: g.gousios@cs.ru.nl
detailed user profile data as statements such as “Experienced
Java developer” or “Embedded Software Engineer” contain
relatively little information.
In the recent years, social coding platforms have become
an important tool for developers to become visible in the
developer community [1]. Developers use sites such as GitHub
and BitBucket to showcase their work in the hope that this will
help them in the hiring process by potential employers [2].
However, judging the qualification of an applicant based on
his or her GitHub profile is equally challenging [3]. GitHub
provides several user-based summary statistics such as Con
tributions in the last year, Number of forked projects, Number
of followers, however, the usefulness of this information is
very limited, as neither does it offer immediate insights into
the developer’s programming abilities nor does it highlight the
particular languages or tool chains the developer knows.
To address the process shortcomings we identified above,
we propose a pipeline that automatically mines GitHub user
profiles and job advertisements for relevant information. We
employ an approach that “translates” both the developer profile
and the advertisement into the Linked Open Data (LOD) [4]
space, where we can exploit the background information avail
able in the LOD cloud to bridge the semantic gap mentioned
earlier. Additionally, this setup allows us to (partially) rely on
well-tested algorithms and toolkits, while it provides a natural
mechanism to determine the similarity between a natural
language job advertisement and a developer’s GitHub profile.
II. APPROACH
The general overview of our pipeline is shown in Figure 1.
The three main components are:
• Extraction of concepts from job advertisements and
social coding user data.
• Weighting of concepts in such a way that more important
concepts receive higher weights.
• Matching of the two (job and coding profile-based)
concept vectors.
A. Concept Extraction Overview
1) The DBPedia Ontology: Our approach is based on two
techniques from natural language processing namely, named
entity recognition (NER) in combination with named entity
disambiguation (NED). Given an unstructured text (e.g. a job
Fig. 1: Overview of our pipeline
advertisement) NER determines which words or phrases in
the text refer to an entity, which can be any real-world entity.
NED determines which concrete entity a particular word or
phrase refers to. The combination of both techniques have
been shown [5] to be a powerful mechanism to turn natural
language text into a structured representation that machines
can reason about.
We rely on DBPedia Spotlight,2 one of the most commonly
used open-source annotation toolkits for natural language text,
as a concrete implementation of concept extraction. The large
scale DBpedia ontology [6] behind the DBPedia Spotlight
service is automatically derived from Wikipedia and (based on
the English Wikipedia edition), currently contains more than
4.5 million entities (“things”) and nearly 600 million links
between them. Wikipedia (and thus DBPedia) contain entries
covering most if not all programming languages, important
programming frameworks and libraries, as well as many
computer science concepts. We thus consider it a suitable
ontology to use for our specific use case.
2) A Concrete Example: Consider the following excerpt
from one of the job advertisements in our data set and its
corresponding automatically derived Named Entity annota
tions. Shown in bold are all phrases that were recognized as
referring to entities (or concepts). The annotations relevant to
our scenario are shown in blue, while non-relevant entities are
shown in red.
Object Oriented Programming
[Object-oriented programming]
such as Design Patterns and Refactoring.
[Martin Fowler]
The phrases (the so-called surface form of an entity) are not
simply matched against a list of entity names, instead they are
disambiguated based on the context a word or phrase appears
in. For instance, Javais recognized as the programming lan
guage concept (instead of the island, the coffee type or another
one of the more than 30 different entities that have the surface
form Java). Each entity is uniquely identified as a particular
LOD concept. Concepts are linked to each other through
different types of properties, thus forming a densely connected
graph structure. Figure 2 contains a small excerpt of this
graph; even though C++ and the Java programming language
are not directly linked, we can determine some degree of
relatedness by a walk across the graph or by considering
the textual similarity between each entity’s description [7]
(similarly, we can observe a lower relatedness degree between
C++ and the GWT, as the distance between the two concepts
is larger). Since in our particular use case we are mostly
interested in concepts related to information technology, we
restrict the annotations to concepts that have the type computer
or internet.
B. Developer Profile Extraction
The successful
candidates
will have experience
of OOP
in at least one of PHP
(or another comparable,
dynamic language),
Java
(ideally with GWT)
or C++
(ideally with Win32).
They will also be well versed in
Test Driven Development
and advanced practices of
2http://dbpedia-spotlight.github.io/
[Successful (song)]
[Candidate]
[Experience]
[Object-oriented programming]
[PHP]
[Dynamic programming language]
[Java (programming language)]
[Google Web Toolkit]
[C++]
[Windows API]
[Test-driven development]
While the annotation of the job advertisements is straight
forward (as just shown in the example), annotating a devel
oper’s GitHub data with concepts from the same ontology
(to allow a simple matching strategy) is more challenging.
While programming language identification can largely be
considered a solved problem, more fine-grained information
such as the libraries used by a particular project often require
language-specific solutions (e.g. Maven projects requires the
parsing of pom.xml files). Furthermore, identifying the degree
of familiarity a developer has with particular concepts (e.g.
WebSocket programming, the TCP protocol, Bloom filters)
requires deep parsing and semantic tagging of the developer’s
source code contributions; parsing at scale requires vast com
puting resources while concept extraction from source code is
neither precise nor complete [8].
We advocate that README (and in general, documentation)
files in repositories in the developer’s profile are a good proxy
Fig. 2: An excerpt of DBPedia’s graph structure. Each node is a concept, the properties between two concepts are captured in
the form of a labelled edge.
for the developer’s familiarity with certain programming con
cepts, languages and toolkits. A typical README file contains
information about what the software can do, description of
technologies used in it, steps on how to recreate development
environments and in general a wealth of information that the
developers should be familiar with if they own a repository.
Since such READMEs are in natural language form, we can
use exactly the same process as for the job advertisements,
only instead of extracting the concepts of a single piece of
text, we process all README files contained in all projects
the developer is associated with.
C. Concept weighting
The extracted concepts from job descriptions and GitHub
developer profiles are converted to vectors: jobi =
(w1,i, w2,i, ..., wn,i) and devj = (w1,j,w2,j,...,wn,j). Each
dimension corresponds to one DBPedia concept and if a
concept cs is found in the job advertisement (or developer
profile), the corresponding weight ws is set to a value above
zero. Since these vectors are extremely sparse, in the future we
will also investigate the use of semantic relatedness measures
on the DBPedia data to “switch on” related concepts that are
not explicitly mentioned in the advertisement or developer
profile.
Not all concepts extracted from an advertisement or de
veloper profile are equally important. We use a basic con
cept weighting scheme commonly employed in information
retrieval: TF.IDF [9] which gives a low weight to concepts that
appear in many documents (as those are not very informative)
while at the same time benefiting concepts which occur rarely
across the entire corpus of documents, but often within par
ticular documents. These weights are computed separately for
the corpus of job advertisements and the corpus of developer
profiles.
D. Concept matching
The vector space model [9] provides a natural mechanism to
determine the similarity between the devised job and developer
profile vectors, namely the cosine of the angle between the two
vectors (the so-called cosine similarity), which is bounded to a
value in [0,1] where a larger score indicates higher similarity.
We can now for each job advertisement rank all developer
profiles according to the similarity as well the other way round.
Number of job adverts
Average number of words / advert
1, 337
284.7
Aveage number of entities / advert
Average number of distinct entities / advert
84.1
59.0
Average number of IT entities / advert
Average number of distinct IT entities / advert
14.4
9.7
Total number of distinct IT entities found
486
TABLE I: Overview of our job advertisement data set.
III. PRELIMINARY RESULTS
a) Job advertisements: We crawled job advertisements
posted in early 2015 from the UK job portal
Indeed3. Each search on Indeed returns up to 1,000
search
results
(i.e.
advertisements);
we conducted
five searches using the following search phrases:
{software developer,software architect,software engineer,
computer science,web developer}
and
thus
retrieved
5, 000 advertisements in total. Of those more than 1,300
advertisements were posted directly on the Indeed platform
(instead of referring to an externally placed advertisment). We
annotated them with DBPedica concepts as discussed before;
the main results are shown in Table I. Important for our work
is the fact that on average ten IT concepts are mentioned in
each advert. The ten most occurring concepts in this data set
are shown in Table II (left column).
b) Developer profiles: We extracted the 1,000 top com
mitters from the GHTorrent [10] dataset. 863 of those users
forked or created at least one project that contains a non-empty
REAdME.md file, the remainder are either bots (63 users) or
created/forked projects with only empty README.md files
(70 users). Thus, overall for less than 10% of human GitHub
it is not possible to use README’s as source of developer
profile data. Each README.md is associated with one project.
The main statistics of our developer data set are shown in
Table III. Importantly on average for each developer we are
able to extract 500 IT entities across all the developer’s
README files. The 57 distinct IT entities found on average
per developer indicate the high level of detailed information
we are able to extract. The right column of Table II shows
3http://www.indeed.co.uk
Job advertisements
Developer profiles
Computer software (41.8%)
Application software (39.6%)
Cascading Style Sheets (37.8%)
Business (36.4%)
JavaScript (34.5%)
HTML (23.0%)
Debian (19.2%)
PHP (18.9%)
Computing platform (18.4%)
.NET Framework (18.0%)
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (78.0%)
Scripting language (67.0%)
HTML (67.0%)
COM file (61.1%)
Debian (60.5%)
JavaScript (56.4%)
Library computing (44.8%)
Git (software) (29.2%)
GNU Project (29.2%)
Wiki (27.5%)
TABLE II: Overview of the ten most often occurring IT
concepts in our job advertisement and developer profile data
sets. Shown in brackets is the percentage of documents (job
advertisements / developer profiles) that contain the concept
at least once.
Fig. 3: Each marker represents one IT entities (851 in total)
which represent the union of all concepts found in the job
adverts and developer profile data sets. The scatter plot shows
in how many developer profiles the entity appeared (at least
once) vs. in how many job advertisements.
the most often occurring IT entities across developers. In
support of our envisioned application, we find substantial
overlap between the entities extracted from job advertisements
and the entities extracted from developer profiles as evident
in Figure 3; while some concepts appear either only among
the developer profiles or among the job adverts, the majority
of concepts appear at least once in both corpora. The linear
correlation between the number of times a concept appears in
developer profiles vs. job adverts is r = 0.49 (fitted line in
Figure 3).
c) Matching developer and job profiles: Lastly, for every
pair of job advert and developer profile vector we computed
their similarity. A manual investigation of the developer rank
ings produced for 25 adverts showed reasonable results though
it also became clear that additional GitHub signals (number
of lines of code, coding style and quality, etc.) are required
as extensive README files do not always equate to extensive
coding. Similarly, more fine-grained distinctions for forked and
created projects are likely to aid the results.
IV. RELATED WORK
Profiling developers using trace data is an active field of
research. Developer profiles have been built, among others, for
building project-specific expertise knowledge bases [11], iden
tify developers with similar expertise [12], measure develop
Number of developers
863
Average number of project README files / developer
Average number forked project README files / developer
Average number created projet README files / developer
32.3
16.5
15.7
Average number of words / README file
Average number of non-code words / README file
384.5
320.2
Average number of entities / README file
Average number of distinct entities / README file
52.3
17.23
Average number of IT entities / README file
Average number of distinct IT entities / README file
18.0
6.0
Average number of entities /developer
Average number of distinct entities / developer
Average number of IT entities / developer
Average number of distinct IT entities / developer
1447.3
291.3
500.1
78.1
Total number of distinct IT entities found
764
TABLE III: Overview of our developer profile data set.
productivity [13], and recommending developers for specific
tasks [14] (e.g. bug resolution [15]). However, to the best
of our knowledge, no work extracted developer profiles for
matching with job advertisements.
In reference [1], Capiluppi et al. described a process (and
its pitfalls) for assessing technical candidates using data,
among others, from social coding sites. Marlow et al. [16]
investigated how more detailed, publicly accessible signals
about a developer’s activities on GitHub are used by employers
in the recruitment process. In an interview-based study with
several IT employers (active in the open-source community)
they identified four main insights that employers can reliably
gain from a study of developer GitHub profiles: (1) Shared
open source values, (2) Community acceptance of work &
contribution quality, (3) Project management skills, and (4)
Passion for coding. Though again, the limiting factor in this
setup is the time required to manually inspect each developer’s
profile.
V. CONCLUSIONS
The availability of data from social coding sites enables the
automated extraction of developer profiles for the purposes
of matching them with job advertisements. We proposed a
pipeline to do this matching automatically. Our key insights
are( i) the approximation of the developers’ actual program
ming knowledge through README files in their profile repos
itories, and, (ii) the use of a large scale ontology to convert
both job advertisements and developer profiles to vector ob
jects featuring a common vocabulary. We obtained interesting
insights such as the substantial overlap in covered concepts
between adverts and README files and the abundance of
IT concepts in the latter, which leads us to believe that our
approach is a promising start. In the future, we plan to augment
developer profiles through extracting fine-grained information
from the source code and build files for their repositories.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Capiluppi, A. Serebrenik, and L. Singer, “Assessing technical candi
dates on the social web,” Software, IEEE, vol. 30, no. 1, pp. 45–51, Jan
2013.
[2] L. Dabbish, C. Stuart, J. Tsay, and J. Herbsleb, “Social coding in
github: transparency and collaboration in an open software repository,”
in Proceedings of the ACM 2012 conference on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work. ACM, 2012, pp. 1277–1286.
[3] L. Singer, F. Figueira Filho, B. Cleary, C. Treude, M.-A. Storey,
and K. Schneider, “Mutual assessment in the social programmer
ecosystem: An empirical investigation of developer profile aggregators,”
in Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work, ser. CSCW ’13. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2013,
pp. 103–116. [Online]. Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2441776.
2441791
[4] C. Bizer, T. Heath, and T. Berners-Lee, “Linked data-the story so
far,” International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems
(IJSWIS), vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 1–22, 2009.
[5] C. C. Aggarwal and C. Zhai, Mining text data. Springer Science &
Business Media, 2012.
[6] P. N. Mendes, M. Jakob, A. Garc´ ıa-Silva, and C. Bizer, “Dbpedia
spotlight: shedding light on the web of documents,” in Proceedings of
the 7th International Conference on Semantic Systems. ACM, 2011,
pp. 1–8.
[7] E. Gabrilovich and S. Markovitch, “Computing semantic relatedness
using wikipedia-based explicit semantic analysis.” in IJCAI, vol. 7, 2007,
pp. 1606–1611.
[8] A. Kuhn, S. Ducasse, and T. Grba, “Semantic clustering: Identifying
topics in source code,” Information and Software Technology, vol. 49,
no. 3, pp. 230– 243, 2007, 12th Working Conference on Reverse
Engineering. [Online]. Available: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0950584906001820
[9] R. Baeza-Yates, B. Ribeiro-Neto et al., Modern information retrieval,
1999, vol. 463.
[10] G. Gousios, “The GHTorrent dataset and tool suite,” in Proceedings
of the 10th Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories, ser.
MSR ’13. Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2013, pp. 233–236.
[11] A. Mockus and J. D. Herbsleb, “Expertise browser: A quantitative
approach to identifying expertise,” in Proceedings of the 24th
International Conference on Software Engineering, ser. ICSE ’02.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2002, pp. 503–512. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/581339.581401
[12] D. Schuler and T. Zimmermann, “Mining usage expertise from
version archives,” in Proceedings of the 2008 International Working
Conference on Mining Software Repositories, ser. MSR ’08. New
York, NY, USA: ACM, 2008, pp. 121–124. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1370750.1370779
[13] G. Gousios, E. Kalliamvakou, and D. Spinellis, “Measuring developer
contribution from software repository data,” in Proceedings of the 2008
International Working Conference on Mining Software Repositories,
ser. MSR ’08. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2008, pp. 129–132.
[Online]. Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1370750.1370781
[14] A. T. Ying and M. P. Robillard, “Developer profiles for recommen
dation systems,” in Recommendation Systems in Software Engineering.
Springer, 2014, pp. 199–222.
[15] J. Anvik, L. Hiew, and G. C. Murphy, “Who should fix this
bug?” in Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Software
Engineering, ser. ICSE ’06. New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2006, pp. 361
370. [Online]. Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1134285.1134336
[16] J. Marlow and L. Dabbish, “Activity traces and signals in software
developer recruitment and hiring,” in Proceedings of the 2013
Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, ser. CSCW ’13.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2013, pp. 145–156. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2441776.2441794
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for
Matching Jobs and Job Seekers
Dor Lavi
dor.lavi@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
ABSTRACT
Volodymyr Medentsiy
volodymyr.medentsiy@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
David Graus
david.graus@randstadgroep.nl
Randstad Groep Nederland
Diemen, The Netherlands
constructing useful embeddings of textual information in vacancies
In this paper we focus on constructing useful embeddings of textual
arXiv:2109.06501v1  [cs.CL]  14 Sep 2021
information in vacancies and resumes, which we aim to incorpo
rate as features into job to job seeker matching models alongside
other features. We explain our task where noisy data from parsed
resumes, heterogeneous nature of the different sources of data,
and crosslinguality and multilinguality present domain-specific
challenges.
We address these challenges by fine-tuning a Siamese Sentence
BERT (SBERT) model, which we call conSultantBERT, using a
large-scale, real-world, and high quality dataset of over 270,000
resume-vacancy pairs labeled by our staffing consultants. We show
how our fine-tuned model significantly outperforms unsupervised
and supervised baselines that rely on TF-IDF-weighted feature
vectors and BERT embeddings. In addition, we find our model
successfully matches cross-lingual and multilingual textual content.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies → Ranking; • Information sys
tems → Content analysis and feature selection; Similarity
measures; Language models.
KEYWORDS
job matching, BERT, fine-tuning
1 INTRODUCTION
Randstad is the global leader in the HR services industry. We sup
port people and organizations in realizing their true potential by
combining the power of today’s technology with our passion for
people. In 2020, we helped more than two million job seekers find
a meaningful job with our 236,100 clients. Randstad is active in 38
markets around the world and has top-three positions in almost
half of these. In 2020, Randstad had on average 34,680 corporate
employees and generated revenue of € 20.7 billion.
Each day, at Randstad, we employ industry-scale recommender
systems to recommend thousands of job seekers to our clients, and
the other way around; vacancies to job seekers. Our job recom
mender system is based on a heterogeneous collection of input
data: curriculum vitaes (resumes) of job seekers, vacancy texts (job
descriptions), and structured data (e.g., the location of a job seeker
or vacancy). The goal of our system is to recommend the best job
seekers to each open vacancy. In this paper we explore methods for
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
2021. Copyright for the individual papers remains with the authors. Copying permitted
for private and academic purposes. This volume is published and copyrighted by its
editors.
and resumes.
The main requirements of the model are (i) to be able to op
erate on multiple languages at the same time, and (ii) to be used
to efficiently compare a vacancy with a large dataset of available
resumes.
Our end-goal is to incorporate these embeddings, or features
derived from them, in a larger recommender system that combines
a heterogeneous feature set, spanning, e.g., categorical features and
real-valued features.
1.1 Problem setting
Several challenges arise when matching jobs to job seekers through
textual resume and vacancy data.
First, the data we work with is inherently noisy. On the one hand,
resumes are user-generated data, usually (but not always) in PDF
format. It goes without saying that parsing those files to plain text
can be a challenge in itself and therefore out of scope for this paper.
On the other hand, vacancies are usually structured formatted text.
Second, the nature of the data differs. Most NLP research in text
similarity is based on the assumption that two pieces of information
are the same but written differently [3]. However, in our case the
two documents do not express the same information, but comple
ment each other like pieces of a puzzle. Our goal is to match two
complementary pieces of textual information, that may not exhibit
direct overlap/similarity.
Third, as a multinational corporate that operates all across the
globe, developing separate models for each market and language
does not scale. Therefore, a desired property of our system is multi
linguality; a system that will support as many languages as possible.
In addition, as it is common to have English resumes in non-English
countries (e.g., in the Dutch market around 10% of resumes are in
English), cross-linguality is another desired property, e.g., being
able to match English resumes to Dutch vacancies.
This paper is structured as follows. First, in Section 2 we sum
marize related work on the use of neural embeddings of textual
information in the recruimtent/HR domain. Next, in Section 3.1 we
describe how we leverage our internal history of job seeker place
ments to create a labeled resume-vacancy pairs dataset. Then, in
Section 3.2 we describe how we fine-tune a multilingual BERT with
bi encoder structure [12] over this dataset, by adding a cosine simi
larity log loss layer. Finally, in Section 4 we describe how using the
mentioned architecture helps us overcome most of the challenges
described above, and how it enables us to build a maintainable and
scalable pipeline to match resumes and vacancies.
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Lavi et al.
2 RELATED WORK
Neural embeddings are widely used for content-based retrieval,
and embedding models became an essential component in the mod
ern recommender system pipelines [8] [6]. So the the main focus
of our work is to construct embeddings of textual information in
vacancy and resume, which could be then incorporated into an
other job-job seeker matching model and used along with other
features, e.g. location and other categorical features. So we will
focus on reviewing methods of embedding vacancies and resumes.
The task of embedding resume and vacancy could be posed as
creating domain-specific document embeddings. Although context
aware embeddings proved to outperform bag-of-words approaches
in most of the NLP tasks in academia, the latter is still widely used
in the industry.
Bian et al.proposetoconstructtwosub-modelswithaco-teaching
mechanism to combine predictions of those models. The first sub
model encodes relational information of resume and vacancy, and
the second sub-model, which is related to our work, encodes textual
information in resume and vacancy. Documents are processed per
sentence, with every sentence being encoded using the CLS token
of the BERT model. The Hierarchical Transformer is applied on top
of sentence embeddings to get the document embeddings. The final
match prediction is obtained by applying a fully-connected layer
with sigmoid activation on concatenated embeddings of resume and
vacancy. Bhatia et al. propose to fine-tune BERT on the sequence
pair classification task to predict whether two job experiences be
long to one person or not. The proposed method does not require
a dataset of labeled resume-vacancy pairs. The fine-tuned model
is used to embed both the job description of the vacancy and the
current job experiences of the job seeker. Zhao et al. process words
in resumes and vacancies using word2vec embeddings and domain
specific vocabulary. Word embeddings are fitted into a stack of
convolutional blocks of different kernel sizes, on top of which Zhao
et al. apply attention to get the context vector and project that into
the embedding space using the FC layer. The model is trained using
the binary cross-entropy loss on the task of predicting a match
between job seeker and vacancy. Ramanath et al. use supervised
and unsupervised embeddings for their ranking model to recom
mend candidates to recruiter queries. The unsupervised method
does not use the unstructured textual data but relies on the data
stored in Linkedin Economic Graph [15], which represents entities
such as skills, educational institutions, employers, employees, and
relations among them. Candidates and queries are embedded using
the graph neural models in this method. The supervised method
embeds textual information in recruiters’ queries and candidates’
profiles using the DSSM [7] model. The DSSM operates on the char
acter trigrams and is composed of two separate models to embed
queries and candidates. The DSSM modelistrained on the historical
data of recruiters’ interaction with candidates.
Zhu et al. utilize skip-gram embeddings of various dimensionali
ties (64 for resume and 256 for a vacancy) to encode words, which
are then passed through two convolutional layers. A pooling oper
ation (max pooling for resume and mean pooling for vacancy) is
applied to the output of convolutional layers to get the embeddings
of resume and vacancy. The model is optimized using the cosine
similarity loss. Qin et al. divide job postings into sections of ability
requirements, and resumes into sections of experiences. The words
are encoded using pre-trained embeddings and processed with bi
LSTM. To get the embeddings of job postings and resumes, they
propose a two-step hierarchical pipeline. Every section is encoded
using the attention mechanism, and finally to get embeddings of the
job postings and resumes they run bi-LSTM on top of section encod
ings and aggregate bi-LSTM outputs using the attention mechanism.
Additionally, during processing information in resumes Qin et al.
propose to add encodings of job postings to emphasize skills in a
resume relevant for a specific job.
We can not directly compare our work with other approaches,
because of the different datasets used. For example, Bhatia et al.
and Qin et al. assume well-structured resumes, which is not the
case in our situation. Ramanath et al. builds an embedding model
for recruiters’ queries which are shorter than vacancies and lack
the context provided in the vacancy. Bhatia et al. propose solution
when limited amount of data is available. We on the other hand
work in a setting of abundant data of heterogeneous nature, but at
the same time resumes lack consistent structure, while vacancies
are given in a more structured way. Additional issues that are not
considered by most of the reviewed works are (i) cross-linguality,
so that we aim at predicting English resumes to Dutch vacancies if
there is a potential match, and (ii) multilinguality, where we aim
to serve a single model for multiple languages. We address both
issues with our approach. Next, Qin et al. and Zhu et al. observe
that an embedding model may benefit from constructing parallel
pipelines to process resume and vacancy. Our approach relies on a
shared embedding model of resumes and vacancies.
While there are many organizations capable to train off the
shelf transformers, not many of them have the availability of an
abundance of high-quality labeled data. As a global market leader,
we are situated in a unique position. We have both rich histories
of high-quality interactions between consultants, candidates, and
vacancies, in addition to having the content to represent those
candidates and vacancies.
3 METHOD
Here we describe our method, more specifically, in Section 3.1 we
describe how we acquire our labeled dataset of resume/vacancy
pairs. Next, in Section 3.2 we describe our multilingual SBERT with
bi-encoder and cosine similarity score as output layer.
3.1 Dataset creation
We have rich history of interaction between consultants (recruiters)
and job seekers (candidates). We define a positive signal any point
of contact between a job seeker and consultant (e.g., a phone call,
interview, job offer, etc.). Negative signals are defined by job seekers
who submit their profile, but get rejected by a consultant without
any interaction (i.e., consultant looks at the job seeker’s profile,
and rejects). In addition, since we have unbalanced dataset, for
each vacancy we add random negative samples, which we draw
randomly from our job seeker pool. This is done in spirit with
other works, which also complement historical data with random
negative pairs [2, 17, 18].
Our dataset consists of 274,407 resume-vacancy pairs, out of
which 126,679 are positive samples, 109,724 are negative samples
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
The original formulation of the Sentence-BERT (SBERT) model
Number of candidates per vacancy
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
0
20
40
60
80
Figure 1: Histogram of the number of resumes per vacancy.
as defined by actual recruiters, and 38,004 are randomly drawn
negative samples. We have 156,256 of unique resumes and 23,080
unique vacancy texts, which implies that one vacancy can be paired
with multiple resumes. Figure 1 shows the histogram of the number
of resume-vacancy samples per vacancy. We see that for the major
ity of vacancies, we have a small number of paired resumes with
approximately 10.5% of our vacancies being paired with a single
resume, and approximately 30% of our vacancies being paired with
at most three resumes.
resumes are user-generated PDF documents which we parse
with Apache Tika.1 Overall, these parsed resumes can be consid
ered quite noisy input to our model; there is a wide variation in
format and structure of resumes, where common challenges include
the ordering of different textual blocks, the diversity of their content
(e.g., spanning any type of information from personalia, education,
workexperience, to hobbies), and parsing of tables and bullet points.
At the same time, vacancies are usually well structured and stan
dardized documents. They consist of on average 2,100 tokens (while
resumes are on average longer and comprised of 2,500 tokens), and
are roughly structured according to the following sections: job ti
tle, job description, job requirements, including required skills, job
benefits, including compensation and other aspects, and company
description, which usually includes information about the industry
of the job offered in the vacancy.
3.2 Architecture
Our method, dubbed conSultantBERT (as it is fine-tuned using la
bels provided by our consultants), utilizes the multilingual BERT [5]
model pre-trained on Wikipedia pages of 100 languages.2 We fine
tune it using the Siamese networks, as proposed by Reimers and
Gurevych.Thismethodoffine-tuningBERTemploysthebi-encoder
structure, which is effective in matching vacancy with a large pool
of available resumes.
1https://tika.apache.org/
2We used the bert-base-multilingual-cased model from the HuggingFace li
brary [16].
takes a pair of sentences as input, with words independently en
coded in every sentence using BERT, which are aggregated by pool
ing to get the sentence embeddings. After that, it either optimizes
the regression loss, which is MSE loss between the cosine similarity
score and true similarity label, or optimizes the classification loss,
namely the cross-entropy loss.
Whereas SBERT is aimed at computing pairwise semantic sim
ilarity, we show that it can be applied effectively for our task of
matching two heterogeneous types ofdata.Ourfine-tuningpipeline
is illustrated at the Figure 2. So we pass resume and vacancy pairs
to the siamese SBERT and experimented with classification and
100
regression objectives.
3.2.1 Document representation. Most transformer models, includ
ing SBERT, aimtomodelsentences as input, while we are interested
in modeling documents.
Weexperimented with several methods for document represen
tation by using the embeddings of the pre-trained BERT model.
First, we attempted to split our input documents into sentences
to encode each sentence; we tried different sentence representa
tions, first we used the pooled layer output from BERT to represent
each sentence, which we then average to represent the document.
Here, we experimented with both simply averaging sentences, and
weighted averaging (by sentence length).
Next, we tried to take the mean of the last 4 layers of the <CLS>
token, which is a special token placed at the start of each sentence,
and considered a suitable representation for the sentence (according
to Devlin et al.). With these sentence representations, too, we repre
sented the underlying document through averaging, both weighted
and simple averaging.
Our final approach however, was more simple. We ended up
treating the first 512 tokens of each input document as input for the
SBERTmodel,ignoringsentenceboundaries. Toavoidtrimmingtoo
much content, we pre-processed and cleaned our input documents
by, e.g., removing non-textual content that resulted from parsing
errors.
3.2.2 Fine-tuning method. We fine-tune our model on our 80%
training data split for 5 epochs, using a batch size of 4 pairs, and
mean pooling, which was found during hyperparameter tuning
on our validation set as optimal parameters. To fine-tune the pre
trained BERT model, we need to trim the content of every resume
and vacancy to 512 tokens, as the base model limits the maximum
number of tokens to 512.
4 EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
In this section, we describe the final datasets we use for training,
validation, and testing in Section 4.1, the baselines and why we em
ploy them in Section 4.2, our proposed fine-tuned conSultantBERT
approach in Section 4.3, and finally, in Section 4.4 we explain our
evaluation metrics and statistical testing methodology.
4.1 Dataset
As described in Section 3.1, our dataset consists of 274,407 resume
vacancy pairs. We split this dataset into 80% train (219,525 samples),
10% validation and 10% test (27,441 samples each).
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Lavi et al.
Figure 2: Our conSultantBERT architectures with classification objective (left) and regression objective (right), with resume
text input on the left, and vacancy text input on the right-hand side. Image adopted from [12]. Note that vacancy and resume
differ at the level of words (vocabulary), but also format, structure, and semantics.
We useour training set to(i)fine-tunetheembeddingmodelsand
train the supervised random forest classifiers, the validation set for
the hyperparameter search of the SBERT hyperparams described
in Section 3.2.2, and report on performance on our test set.
4.2 Baselines
As this paper revolves around constructing useful feature repre
sentations (i.e., embeddings) of the textual information in vacancy
and resumes, we compare several approaches of generating these
embeddings.
4.2.1 Unsupervised. Our first baselines rely on unsupervised fea
ture representations. More specifically, we represent both our va
cancies and resumes as either (i) TF-IDF weighted vectors (TFIDF),
or (ii) pre-trained BERT embeddings (BERT).
We then compute cosine similarities between pairs of resumes
and vacancies, and consider the cosine similarity as the predicted
“matching score.” Our TF-IDF vectors have 768 dimensions, which
is equal to the dimensionality of BERT embeddings.3 We fitted our
TF-IDF weights on the training set, comprising both vacancy and
resume data. As described in Section 3.2, we rely on BERT models
pre-trained on Wikipedia from the HuggingFace library [16].
These unsupervised baselines help us to assess the extent to
which the vocabulary gap is problematic, i.e., if vacancies and re
sumes use completely different words, both bag of words-based
3We experimented with increasing the dimensions of TF-IDF vectors, but it did not
gave any substantial increase in performance (increasing dimensions 3-fold improved
ROC-AUC by +0.7%).
approaches such as TF-IDF weighting and embedding represen
tations of these different words will likely show low similarity.
Formulated differently, if word overlap or proximity between va
cancies and resumes is meaningful, these baselines would be able
to perform decently.
4.2.2 Supervised. Next, we present our two supervised baselines,
where we employ a random forest classifier that is trained on top
of the feature representation described above (TFIDF+RF, BERT+RF).
These supervised baselines are trained on our 80% train split, using
the default parameters given by the scikit-learn library [9].
We add these supervised methods and compare them to the
previously described unsupervised baselines to further establish
the extent of the aforementioned vocabulary gap, and the extent
in which the heterogeneous nature of the two types of documents
mentioned in Section 1.1 plays a role. That is to say, if there is a
direct mapping that can be learned from words in one source of
data (vacancy or resume), to the other source, supervised baselines
should be able to pick this up and outperform the unsupervised
baselines.
4.3 conSultantBERT 4
Finally, we present our fine-tuned embedding model; conSultant
BERT, which we fine-tune using both the classification objective as
the regression objective, as explained in Section 3.2 and illustrated
in Figure 2.
4The capitalized S in conSultant is a reference to SBERT.
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
# Model
ROC-AUC precision recall
f1
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
BERT+Cosine
TFIDF+Cosine
BERT+RF
TFIDF+RF
0.5325
0.5730∗
0.6978
0.7174
conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine 0.7474
conSultantBERTClassifier+RF
0.8366∗
0.5057
0.5890
0.6421
0.6581
0.7001
0.7642
0.5006 0.3379
0.5016 0.3564
0.6363 0.6360
0.6526 0.6527
0.6426 0.5994
0.7643 0.7643
7.
8.
conSultantBERTRegressor+Cosine
conSultantBERTRegressor+RF
0.8459∗
0.8389
0.7714
0.7684
0.7664 0.7677
0.7658 0.7666
Table1:Resultsofdifferentruns.∗ denotesstatisticallysignificantdifferencefromthealternativeinthesamegroupat𝛼 = 0.01.
Best-performing run in bold face.
Our intuition for using the classification objective is our task and
dataset; which consists out of binary class labels, making the classi
fication objective the most obvious choice. At the same time, our
work revolves around searching for meaningful embeddings, not
necessarily solving the end-task in the best possible way, for which,
we hypothesize, the model may benefit from the more fine-grained
information that is present in the cosine similarity optimization
metric.
Similarly to our baselines, we consider (i) our fine-tuned model’s
direct output layer (i.e., the cosine similarity output layer) as “match
ing score,” between a candidate and a vacancy (conSultantBERT
Regressor+Cosine, conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine), in ad
dition to the predictions made by a supervised random forest classi
fier which we train on the embedding layer’s output (see Figure 2),
yielding the following supervised models: conSultantBERTReg
ressor+RF and conSultantBERTClassifier+RF. We explore the
latter since we aim to incorporate our model in a production system
alongside other models and features.
4.4 Evaluation
In order to compare our different methods and baselines, we turn
to standard evaluation metrics for classification problems, namely
we consider ROC-AUC as our main metric, as it is insensitive to
thresholding and scale invariant. In addition, we turn to macro
averaged (since our dataset is pretty balanced) precision, recall, and
F1 scores for a deeper understanding of the specific behaviors of
the different methods.
Finally, we perform independent student’s 𝑡-tests for statistical
significance testing, and set the 𝛼-level at 0.01.
5 RESULTS
See Table 1 for the results of our baselines and fine-tuned model.
We first turn to our main evaluation metric ROC-AUC below, and
next to the precision and recall scores in Section 5.2.
5.1 Overall performance
5.1.1 Baselines. As expected, using BERT embeddings or TF-IDF
vectors in an unsupervised manner, i.e., by computing cosine sim
ilarity as a matching score, does not perform well. This confirms
our observations about the challenging nature of our domain; word
overlap or semantic proximity/similarity does not seem a suffi
ciently strong signal for identifying which resumes match a given
vacancy.
At row 3 and 4 we show the methods where a supervised clas
sifier is trained using the input representations described above
(TFIDF+RF and BERT+RF). Here, we see that with a supervised clas
sifier, both TF-IDF-weighted vectors as feature representation and
pre-trained BERT embeddings vastly improve over the unsuper
vised baselines, with a +31.0% improvement for BERT, and a +25.2%
improvement for the TF-IDF-weighted vectors. This suggests to
some extent, a mapping can be learned between the two types of
documents, as we hypothesized in Section 4.2.
5.1.2 conSultantBERT. Next, we turn to our consultantBERT runs
in rows 5 through 8. First, we consider models trained with the
classification objective, in rows 5 and 6. We note that fine-tuning
BERT brings huge gains over the results the unsupervised pre
trained embeddings (BERT+Cosine), which is in line with previous
findings [14]. Even the method that relies on direct cosine similarity
computations on the embeddings learned with the classification
objective (conSultantBERTClassifier+Cosine), outperforms our
supervised random forest baselines in rows 3 and 4 with a 7.1% and
4.2% increase in ROC-AUC respectively. Adding a random forest
classifier on top of those fine-tuned embeddings (conSultantBERT
Classifier+RF) even further increases performance with a +11.9%
increase in ROC-AUCoveroursupervisedbaselinewithpre-trained
embeddings.
As our primary goal is to get high quality embeddings for the
down-stream application of generating useful feature representa
tions for recommendation, alongside of which we can train what
ever model we want with additional features types such as categor
ical, binary, or real-valued features, we are more interested in the
former unsupervised, rather than the latter approach with random
forest classifier.
Finally, we turn to our fine-tuned conSultantBERT with the
regression objective (conSultantBERTRegressor), to study the di
rect cosine similarity optimization objective. Looking at the last two
rows, we find that conSultantBERT with regression objective per
forms similarly to conSultantBERT trained with the classification
objective in supervised approach with a random forest classifier
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Lavi et al.
Figure 3: Density plots showing the distribution of Cosine similarity (denoted Cosine) scores (top row) and Random forest
classifier (denoted RF) probability scores (bottom row) per label. Blue lines show the distributions for the negative class, and
orange show distributions for the positive class.
on top. In fact, the small difference turns out not to be statistically
significant with a 𝑝-value of 0.2.
What stands out most, is that the approach with cosine similarity
outperforms all other runs, including significantly outperforming
the conSultantBERTClassifier+RF approach.Weexplainthisdif
ference by the fact the architecture with the classifier objective
having a learnable layer (the Softmax classifier in Figure 2). We
drop this layer after the fine-tuning phase to yield our embeddings,
losing information in the process. On the other hand, the architec
ture with the regression objective’s had a non-learnable last layer,
namely simply cosine similarity, which means all the necessary
information has to propagate to the embedding layer.
5.2 Precision & Recall
When we zoom into the more fine-grained precision and recall
scores, we observe the following: First, our unsupervised baselines
in row 1 and 2 show how TFIDF-based cosine similarity yields
substantially higher precision compared to cosine similarity with
pre-trained BERT embeddings, keeping similar recall.
Next, these same baselines with a supervised random forest clas
sifier on top (row 3 and 4) show that in both cases the classifiers
seem to perform somewhat similarly, irrespective of whether it is
trained with TFIDF-weighted feature vectors or pre-trained BERT
embeddings. With only a slight increase across precision and recall
(around +2.5%) for the TFIDF-based method, we conclude the fea
ture space in itself does not provide substantially different signals
for separating the classes.
Then, comparing our fine-tuned models, rows 5 and 6 shows
the SBERT model fine-tuned with the classification objective yields
marginally higher precision compared to the random forest classi
fier trained on the SBERT’s output layer. Row 7 and 8 show similar
stable improvements across the board compared to the methods in
rows 1–4.
Overall, we conclude that all of the supervised approaches (row
3 through 8) show roughly similar behavior with precision and re
call balanced and substantial improvements over the unsupervised
baselines.
6 ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION
After analyzing the results in the previous section, in this section
we take a closer look at the different methods, by studying the
distributions of prediction scores across the two labels (positive and
negative matches) in Section 6.1, and we zoom into another desired
property of our embedding space: multilinguality (in Section 6.2)
6.1 Distributions
In Figure 3we plot the distributions of predicted scores per run, split
out for positive and negative labels.Thepredictedscorescorrespond
to cosine similarities in the case of TFIDF, BERT, conSultantBERT*,
and probabilities of the random forest classifier in the case of
TFIDF+RF, BERT+RF, and conSultantBERT*+RF.
A few things stand out, first, it is clear that fine-tuning the BERT
embeddings in our conSultantBERT models yield a clearer separa
tion in the predictions per class. The left-most plots (TFIDF, both
with Cosine similarities) show largely overlapping distributions.
The second column of plots (denoted BERT) shows largely similar
conSultantBERT: Fine-tuned Siamese Sentence-BERT for Matching Jobs and Job Seekers
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
TFIDF
I worked in a warehouse for 10 years
Ive been an educator for the last 10 years
Ik heb 10 jaar in een magazijn gewerkt
Ik ben de afgelopen 10 jaar leraar geweest
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
BERT
0
0
0
0
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek medewerker
0
0
0
0
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
0.57
0.65
0.56
0.55
0.49
0.66
0.47
0.51
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
conSultantBERTRegressor
0.46
0.52
0.7
0.65
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek medewerker
0.44
0.53
0.67
0.66
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
0.91
0.3
0.89
0.26
0.41
0.86
0.62
0.76
0.33
0.91
0.083
0.62
0.23
0.82
We are looking for a talented logistic worker
We are looking for a talented educator
0.37
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek medewerker
0.91
We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde docent
Figure 4: Heatmapsofcosinesimilaritybetweensentencesfromresumesandsentencesfromvacancies.TheEnglishsentences
(first two rows, first two columns) and Dutch sentences (last two rows, last two columns) are each other’s direct translations.
patterns; with as main difference the unsupervised BERT having a
bias towards higher scores compared to the unsupervised TFIDF.
At the same time, while the distributions of scores for each label
from the classifier with TF-IDF weighted vectors or pre-trained
BERT embeddings do seem rather close, the model does succeed in
separating the classes more often than not (as can be seen by the
score improvements over the non-supervised baselines in Table 1).
Observing the latter, though, makes clear that unsupervised
similarity scores using default embeddings or TF-IDF weights does
not allow a strong signal to separate both classes, which can be
witnessed by the largely overlapping score distributions.
Weobservedthe difference inperformancebetweenourregression
optimized conSultantBERT with the classification-optimized one, in
Section 5.1. We now turn to comparing the prediction distributions
of both models. We note how the classification-optimized conSul
tantBERT (top row, third plot from the left) seems to yield less sepa
rable cosine similarity scores compared to the regression-optimized
one (top right plot). Compared to the three other conSultantBERT
approaches, the former stands out. The random forest classifier
trained on top of the embeddings, though, effectively learns again
to separate between the classes, suggesting the embeddings keep
distinguishing information.
6.2 Multilinguality
As a multinational corporate that operates all across the globe, de
veloping a model per language is not scalable in our case. Therefore,
a desired property of our system is multilinguality; a system that
will support as many languages as possible.
In some of the countries we operate, there is a high percentage of
job seekers that are not native to that country. For example, many
of the job descriptions in the Netherlands are in Dutch, however
around 10% of the resumes are in English. Due to that fact another
expected property from our solution is to be cross-lingual [13].
Classic text models, like TF-IDF and Word2vec, capture informa
tion within one language, but hardly connect between languages.
Simply put, even if trained on multiple languages each language
will have its own cluster in space. So “logistics” in English and
“logistiek” in Dutch are embedded in a completely different point in
space, even though the meaning is the same.
Furthermore, we know that the language of resume correlates
with nationality and therefore can be a proxy discriminator. Due to
the impact of these systems and the risks of unintended algorithmic
bias and discrimination, HR is marked as a high risk domain in
the recently published EC Artificial Intelligence Act [4]. To avoid
discriminating against nationality we would like to recommend a
candidate to the vacancy no matter which language the resume is
written in. That is of course only if language is not a requirement
for that vacancy.
In Figure 4 we see few examples for sentences that a candidate
might write “I worked ...” and few examples for vacancy “We are
looking for ...”. In order to demonstrate cross lingual and multilingual
the same examples are written in both English and Dutch.
On the left hand side of Figure 4 (TFIDF) we can see that there is
no match at all. This is due to the vocabulary gap, so by definition
TFIDF can not match between “warehouse” and “logistic worker”.
To solve the vocabulary gap we introduced BERT (center of
Figure 4), which we see does find similarity between candidate and
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
RecSys in HR 2021, October 1, 2021, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Lavi et al.
vacancy sentences. However, it also hardly separates between the
positive and negative pairs. Moreover, we can see a slight clustering
around languages, so Dutch sentences have comparitively higher
similarity to Dutch sentences, and likewise English sentences are
more similar to each other.
On the right hand side of Figure 4 (conSultantBERTRegressor)
we observe that the vocabulary gap is bridged, cross-lingual sen
tences are paired properly (e.g “I worked in a warehouse for 10 years”
and “We zijn op zoek naar een getalenteerde logistiek medewerker”
have high score), and finally, both Dutch to Dutch and English
to English sentences are properly scored, too, thus achieving our
desired property of multilinguality.
7 CONCLUSION
In this work we experimented with various ways to construct em
beddings of resume and vacancy texts.
We propose to fine-tune the BERT model using the Siamese
SBERT framework on our large real-world dataset with high qual
ity labels for resume-vacancy matches derived from ourconsultants’
decisions. We show our model beat our unsupervised and super
vised baselines based on TF-IDF features and pre-trained BERT
embeddings. Furthermore, we show it can be applied for multilin
gual (e.g., English-to-English alongside Dutch-to-Dutch) and cross
lingual matching (e.g., English-to-Dutch and vice versa). Finally,
we show that using a regression objective to optimize for cosine
similarity yields more useful embeddings in our scenario, where
we aim to apply the learned embeddings as feature representation
in a broader job recommender system.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Special thanks to the rest of the SmartMatch team: Adam, Evelien,
Najeeb, Sandra, Wilco, Wojciech, and Zeki. And Sepideh for her
helpful comments.
REFERENCES
[1] Vedant Bhatia, Prateek Rawat, Ajit Kumar, and Rajiv Ratn Shah. 2019. End-to
End Resume Parsing and Finding Candidates for a Job Description using BERT.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.03089
[2] Shuqing Bian, Xu Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Yupeng Hou, Yang Song,
Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2020. Learning to Match Jobs with Resumes
from Sparse Interaction Data using Multi-View Co-Teaching Network. https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2009.13299
[3] DhivyaChandrasekaranandVijayMago.2021. EvolutionofSemanticSimilarity—
A Survey. ACM Comput. Surv. 54, 2, Article 41 (Feb. 2021), 37 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3440755
[4] European Commission. 2021. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament
and of the Council Laying Down Harmonised Rules on Artificial Intelligence (Artifi
cial Intelligence Act) and Amending Certain Union Legislative Acts : {SEC(2021) 167
Final}- {SWD(2021) 84 Final}- {SWD(2021) 85 Final}. European Commission.
https://books.google.nl/books?id=ofxxzgEACAAJ
[5] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018).
[6] Hebatallah A. Mohamed Hassan, Giuseppe Sansonetti, Fabio Gasparetti, A. Mi
carelli, and J. Beel. 2019. BERT, ELMo, USE and InferSent Sentence Encoders:
The Panacea for Research-Paper Recommendation?. In RecSys.
[7] Po-Sen Huang, Xiaodong He, Jianfeng Gao, li Deng, Alex Acero, and Larry
Heck. 2013. Learning deep structured semantic models for web search using
clickthrough data. 2333–2338. https://doi.org/10.1145/2505515.2505665
[8] Cataldo Musto, Giovanni Semeraro, Marco de Gemmis, and Pasquale Lops. 2016.
Learning Word Embeddings from Wikipedia for Content-Based Recommender
Systems. In Advances in Information Retrieval, Nicola Ferro, Fabio Crestani, Marie
Francine Moens, Josiane Mothe, Fabrizio Silvestri, Giorgio Maria Di Nunzio,
Claudia Hauff, and Gianmaria Silvello (Eds.). Springer International Publishing,
Cham, 729–734.
[9] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M.
Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cour
napeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay. 2011. Scikit-learn: Machine
Learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research 12 (2011), 2825–2830.
[10] Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Tong Xu, Chen Zhu, Liang Jiang, Enhong Chen, and
Hui Xiong. 2018. Enhancing Person-Job Fit for Talent Recruitment: An Ability
aware Neural Network Approach. The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference
on Research & Development in Information Retrieval (2018).
[11] Rohan Ramanath, Hakan Inan, Gungor Polatkan, Bo Hu, Q. Guo, C. Ozcaglar,
Xianren Wu, K. Kenthapadi, and S. C. Geyik. 2018. Towards Deep and Repre
sentation Learning for Talent Search at LinkedIn. Proceedings of the 27th ACM
International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (2018).
[12] Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings
using Siamese BERT-Networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP). Association for Computational
Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 3982–3992. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1410
[13] Sebastian Ruder, Ivan Vulić, and Anders Søgaard. 2019. A Survey of Cross
Lingual Word Embedding Models. J. Artif. Int. Res. 65, 1 (May 2019), 569–630.
https://doi.org/10.1613/jair.1.11640
[14] Chi Sun, Xipeng Qiu, Yige Xu, and Xuanjing Huang. 2019. How to Fine-Tune
BERT for TextClassification?. In Chinese Computational Linguistics, Maosong Sun,
XuanjingHuang,HengJi,ZhiyuanLiu,andYangLiu(Eds.).SpringerInternational
Publishing, Cham, 194–206.
[15] Jeff Weiner. 2012. The Future of LinkedIn and the Economic Graph. (2012).
[16] ThomasWolf,LysandreDebut,VictorSanh,JulienChaumond,ClementDelangue,
Anthony Moi, Pierric Cistac, Tim Rault, Rémi Louf, Morgan Funtowicz, Joe
Davison, Sam Shleifer, Patrick von Platen, Clara Ma, Yacine Jernite, Julien Plu,
Canwen Xu, Teven Le Scao, Sylvain Gugger, Mariama Drame, Quentin Lhoest,
and Alexander M. Rush. 2020. HuggingFace’s Transformers: State-of-the-art
Natural Language Processing. arXiv:1910.03771 [cs.CL]
[17] JingZhao,JingyaWang,MadhavSigdel,BopengZhang,PhuongHoang,Mengshu
Liu, and Mohammed Korayem. 2021. Embedding-based Recommender System
for Job to Candidate Matching on Scale. https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00221
[18] Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, Chao Ma, Fang Xie, Pengliang Ding, and
Pan Li. 2018. Person-Job Fit: Adapting the Right Talent for the Right Job with
Joint Representation Learning. https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04040
CONFIT: Improving Resume-Job Matching using Data Augmentation and
Contrastive Learning
Xiao Yu† Jinzhong Zhang‡ Zhou Yu†
†Columbia University ‡Intellipro Group Inc.
{xy2437,zy2416}@columbia.edu
{jinzhong}@intelliprogroup.com
Abstract
A reliable resume-job matching system helps a
company find suitable candidates from a pool
arXiv:2401.16349v1  [cs.CL]  29 Jan 2024
of resumes, and helps a job seeker find relevant
jobs from a list of job posts. However, since
job seekers apply only to a few jobs, interaction
records in resume-job datasets are sparse. Dif
ferent from many prior work that uses complex
modeling techniques, we tackle this sparcity
problem using data augmentations and a sim
ple contrastive learning approach. CONFIT first
creates an augmented resume-job dataset by
paraphrasing specific sections in a resume or a
job post. Then, CONFIT uses contrastive learn
ing to further increase training samples from B
pairs per batch to O(B2) per batch. We eval
uate CONFIT on two real-world datasets and
find it outperforms prior methods (including
BM25 and OpenAI text-ada-002) by up to 19%
and 31% absolute in nDCG@10 for ranking
jobs and ranking resumes, respectively.1
1 Introduction
Online recruitment platforms, such as LinkedIn,
have over 900 million users, with over 100 million
job applications made each month (Iqbal, 2023).
With the ever increasing growth of online recruit
ment platforms, building fast and reliable person
job fit systems is desiderated. A practical system
should be able to quickly select suitable talents and
jobs from large candidate pools, and also reliably
quantify the “matching degree” between a resume
and a job post.
Since both resumes and job posts are often stored
as text data, many recent work (Zhu et al., 2018;
Qin et al., 2018; Bian et al., 2020; Yang et al., 2022;
Shao et al., 2023) focus on designing complex mod
eling techniques to model resume-job matching
(or referred to as “person-job fit”). For example,
APJFNN (Qin et al., 2018) uses hierarchical recur
rent neural networks to process the job and resume
1We will release our code upon acceptance.
content, and DPGNN (Yang et al., 2022) uses a
dual-perspective graph neural network to model the
relationship between resumes and jobs. However,
these methods only show limited improvements,
and they often: optimize only for a single task (e.g.,
interview classification); are hard to accommodate
new, unseen resumes or jobs; and are designed for
a particular data setting (e.g., applicable only if a
specific recruitment platform is used).
In this work, we present a simple method to
model resume-job matching, with strong perfor
mances in both resume/job ranking and resume-job
pair classification tasks. We propose CONFIT, an
approach to learn high-quality dense embeddings
for resumes and jobs, which can be combined with
techniques such as FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019) to
rank tens of thousands of resumes and jobs in mil
liseconds. To combat label sparsity in person-job
fit datasets, CONFIT first uses data augmentation
techniques to increase the number of training sam
ples, and then uses contrastive learning (Karpukhin
et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2023) to train an encoder.
Weevaluate CONFIT on two resume-job matching
datasets and find our approach outperforms pre
vious methods (including strong baselines from
information retrieval such as BM25) in almost all
ranking and classification tasks, with up to 20-30%
absolute improvement in ranking jobs and resumes.
2 Background
A resume-job matching (or often called a person
job fit) system models the suitability between a
resume and a job, allowing it to select the most
suitable candidates given a job post, or recommend
the most relevant jobs given a candidate’s resume
(Bian et al., 2020; Yang et al., 2022; Shao et al.,
2023). A job post J (or a resume R) is commonly
structured as a collection of texts J = {xJ
i}p
i=1,
where each piece of text may represent certain sec
tions of the document, such as “Required Skills”
for a job post or “Experiences” for a resume (Bian
et al., 2019; Shao et al., 2023). Thus, the person
job fit problem is often formulated as a text-based
task to model a “matching” score:
match(R,J) = fθ(R,J) → R
where fθ typically involves neural networks (Zhu
et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2022; Shao et al., 2023)
such as BERT (Devlin et al., 2019).
With the ever-increasing growth of online recruit
ment data, there is a large number of job posts and
resumes (privately) available. However, since a can
didate applies to only a small selection of jobs, in
teractions between resumes and jobs is very sparse
(Bian et al., 2020). Often, the resulting dataset
D ={Ri,Ji,yi} has size |D| ≪ nR ×nJ, where
nR and nJ are the total number of resumes and
jobs respectively, and yi ∈ {0,1} is a binary sig
nal representing whether a resume Ri is accepted
for an interview by a job Ji. While some private
datasets (Yang et al., 2022) may contain additional
labels, such as whether the candidate or recruiter
“requested” additional information from the other
party, we focus on the more common case where
only a binary signal is available.
3 Approach
We propose CONFIT, a simple and general-purpose
approach to model resume-job matching using con
trastive learning and data augmentation. CONFIT
produces a dense embedding of a given resume or
job post, and models the matching score between
an ⟨R,J⟩pair asthe inner product of their represen
tations. This simple formulation allows CONFIT
to quickly rank a large number of resumes or jobs
when combined with retrieval techniques such as
FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019). In Section 3.1, we
describe our approach to augment a person-job fit
dataset, and in Section 3.2 we describe the con
trastive learning approach used during training.
3.1 Data Augmentation
A person-job fit dataset may be considered as a
sparse bipartite graph, where each resume Ri and
job Ji is a node, and a label (accept or reject) is an
edge between the two nodes. Given a resume Ri,
we first create augmented versions ˆ
Ri byparaphras
ing certain sections such as “Experiences” (see
Appendix E for more details). Since ˆ
Ri includes
semantically similar information as Ri, we inherit
the same edges from Ri to ˆRi, i.e., any job Jj that
accepts Ri for interview also accepts ˆ
Ri. Next, we
perform the same augmentation procedure for jobs,
creating ˆ
Ji that inherits the same edges as Ji in the
graph (which involves augmented ˆ
Ris). As a result,
augmenting naug resumes and jobs each for once
approximately doubles the number of labeled pairs
(often ≫ naug) in the dataset. CONFIT thus first
performs data augmentation to increase the number
of labeled pairs, and then uses contrastive learning
(Section 3.2) to train a high-quality encoder. Below,
we briefly describe paraphrasing methods used in
this work.
EDAAugmentation Given a piece of text from a
resume or a job, we use EDA (Wei and Zou, 2019)
to randomly replace, delete, swap, or insert words
to create a paraphrased version of the text. We
find this to be a simple and fast method to create
semantically similar text.
ChatGPT Augmentation Besides EDA, we also
use ChatGPT (OpenAI, 2022b) to perform para
phrasing. ChatGPT has been used on many data
augmentation tasks (Cegin et al., 2023; Dai et al.,
2023), and in this work, we similarly prompt Chat
GPT to paraphrase a given piece of text (see Ap
pendix E for more details).
3.2 Contrastive Learning
Given an augmented dataset, CONFIT uses con
trastive learning (Chen et al., 2020; Wang et al.,
2023) to further increase the number of training
instances from B per batch to O(B2) per batch.
Contrastive learning is also an effective technique
for learning a high-quality embedding space, and
is used in various domains such as information re
trieval (Karpukhin et al., 2020) and representation
learning (Chen et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2023).
First, we construct contrastive training instances
from a dataset D = {Ri,Ji,yi}:
Dcon = {⟨R+
i ,J+
i ,R−
i,1,...,R−
i,l,J−
i,1, ..., J−
i,l⟩},
where each instance contains one positive pair of
matched resume-job ⟨R+
i ,J+
i ⟩ with yi = 1, and
l unsuitable resumes R−
i,l for a job J+
i as well as
l unsuitable jobs J−
i,l for a resume R+
i .2 Follow
ing prior work in contrastive learning (Chen et al.,
2020; Gao et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2023), we
2Different from information retrieval (Karpukhin et al.,
2020; Wang et al., 2022) where ranking is an asymmetric task
(given a query, rank passages), the person-job fit problem is
symmetric (given a resume, rank jobs, and vice versa).
optimize the following cross-entropy loss:
3.3 CONFIT
LR =−log
LJ =−log
L =LR+LJ
esθ(R+
i ,J+
i )
esθ(R+
i ,J+
i ) + l
j=1esθ(R+
i ,J−
i,j)
i )
esθ(R+
i ,J+
esθ(R+
i ,J+
i ) + l
j=1esθ(R−
i,j,J+
i )
(1)
Similar to training retrieval systems (Karpukhin
et al., 2020), we find the number and choice of
negative samples important to obtain a high-quality
encoder. We discuss how CONFIT chooses nega
tive samples below.
In-batch negatives Let there be B positive pairs
{⟨R+
1 ,J+
1 ⟩,..., ⟨R+
B, J+
B⟩} in a mini-batch during
training. For each resume R+
i , we use the other
B−1jobs {J+
j̸=i} as negative samples, and sim
ilarly for each job J+
i , we use the other B − 1
resumes as negative samples. The trick of in-batch
negatives thus trains on B2 resume-job pairs in
each batch, and is highly computationally efficient
(Gillick et al., 2019; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Wang
et al., 2022). In person-job fit, this has a natu
ral interpretation that random (in-batch) negative
samples are unsuitable resumes/jobs for a given
job/resume. In practice, we find that using in
batch negatives alone is sufficient to yield com
petitive ranking performances compared to prior
approaches (see Section 4.7).
Hard negatives In addition to in-batch negative
samples, we also sample up to 2 × Bhard hard neg
atives for each batch to further improve CONFIT
training. In information retrieval systems, hard neg
atives (Karpukhin et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2022)
are often passages that are relevant to the query
(e.g. have a high BM25 (Robertson and Zaragoza,
2009) score) but do not contain the correct answer.
In person-job fit, we believe that this extends to
resumes/jobs that are explicitly rejected for a given
job/resume. This is because often when a candidate
submits a resume for a given job post, the resume
is already highly relevant regardless of whether the
candidate is accepted or rejected. Thus, we sam
ple up to Bhard rejected resumes as hard negatives
for any of the B jobs in the mini-batch, as well
as Bhard jobs that rejected any of the B resumes.
These 2×Bhard hard negatives are then used by all
resumes/jobs in the batch, increasing the number of
training pairs to (B + Bhard)2 − B2
hard per batch.
To address the label sparcity problem in person
job fit datasets, CONFIT first augments the dataset
using techniques introduced in Section 3.1. Then,
CONFIT trains an encoder network Eθ using con
trastive learning described in Section 3.2. Given
resumes and job posts during inference, CONFIT
first uses the encoder Eθ to obtain a dense represen
tation for each resume R and job J. Then, CONFIT
produces a matching score sθ between the ⟨R,J⟩
pair using inner product:
match(R,J) = Eθ(R)TEθ(J) ≡ sθ(R,J)
This simple formulation allows CONFIT to com
bined with techniques such as FAISS (Johnson
et al., 2019) to efficiently rank tens of thousands of
resumes and jobs in milliseconds (Section 4.6).
4 Experiments
We evaluate CONFIT on two real-world person
job fit datasets, and measure its performance and
runtime on ranking resumes, ranking jobs, as well
as on a fine-grained interview classification task.
4.1 Dataset and Preprocessing
AliYun Dataset To our knowledge, the 2019 Al
ibaba job-resume intelligent matching competition3
provided the only publicly available person-job fit
dataset. All resume and job posts were desensitized
and were already parsed into a collection of text
fields, such as “Education”, “Age”, and “Work Ex
periences” for a resume (see Appendix A for more
details). All resumes and jobs are in Chinese.
Intellipro Dataset The resumes and job posts
are collected from a global hiring solution com
pany, called “Intellipro Group Inc.”. To protect
the privacy of candidates, all records have been
anonymized by removing sensitive identity infor
mation. For each resume-job pair, we record
whether the candidate is accepted (y = 1) or re
jected (y = 0) for an interview. For generaliz
ability, we parse all resumes and jobs into similar
sections/fields as the AliYun dataset. Both English
and Chinese resumes and jobs are included.
Since neither dataset has an official test set, we
first construct test sets with statistics shown in
Table 2. To measure the ranking ability of cur
rent methods, we consider two tasks: 1) ranking
q = 100 resumes given a job post (denoted as Rank
3https://tianchi.aliyun.com/competition/entrance/231728
Train IntelliproDataset AliyunDataset
#Jobs 1794 19542
#Resumes 6435 2718
#Labels 6751 22124
(#accept) 2809 10185
(#reject) 3942 11939
#Industries 16 20
#FieldsperR 8 12
#FieldsperJ 9 11
#WordsperR 915.2 101.9
#WordsperJ 174.7 153.1
Table1:Trainingdatasetstatistics. #WordsperR/J
representtheaveragenumberofwordsperresume/job.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
Test RankR RankJ Classify RankR RankJ Classify
#Samples 120 120 120 300 300 300
#Jobs 120 427 104 300 2903 299
#Resumes 1154 120 117 1006 300 280
Table2: Testdataset statistics. Classify isabinary
classificationtasktopredictwhetheraresume-jobpair
isacceptedorrejectedforinterview.
Resume), and2) rankingq=100jobsgivena
resume(denotedasRankJob). Sinceonlyafew
resumesandjobsarelabeled,wefill inrandom
resumes/jobstoreachqslotswhenneeded.Wefur
therconsiderthe“fine-grained”scoringabilityof
currentmethods,bymeasuringhowwellamethod
candistinguishbetweenanacceptedresume-job
pairandarejectedone(denotedasclassification).
Weexcludeallresumesandjobsusedintestand
validationsetsfromthetrainingset,andpresentthe
training,test,andvalidationsetstatisticsinTable1,
Table2andTableA1,respectively.
4.2 ModelArchitecture
Sincebothdatasetsrepresentresumesandjobposts
asacollectionoftextfields,wesimplifythemodel
architecturefromInEXIT(Shaoetal.,2023),out
linedinFigure1. InEXITencodeseachtextfield
(e.g.,“education:Bachelor;...”) inaresumeora
jobindependentlyusingapre-trainedencoder,and
considersahierarchical attentionmechanismto
modelperson-jobfitasinteractionsbetweenthese
fields. FollowingInEXIT,wefirstencodeeach
fieldindependently, andmodel the“internal in
teraction”betweenthefieldswithinaresume/job
usingattention(Vaswanietal.,2023). InEXITthen
usesanotherattentionlayeronalltextfieldsofthe
resume-jobpairtomodelthe“externalinteraction”
betweenaresumeandajobpost,andfinallypro
ducesascoreusinganMLPlayer(seeAppendixB
...
resume
attention + FFNN
Backbone Encoder
education: Bachelor; ...
skills: python; C++; ...
experiences: SWE at ...
linear
Figure1:Modelarchitectureusedtoencodearesume
orajobpost,formattedasacollectionofptextfields
(seeAppendixAforafullexampleofresume/job).
formoredetails). SinceCONFITmodelsperson
jobfitbasedonindependentlyproducedresume/job
embeddings,wereplacethelastattentionandMLP
layerwithalinearlayer,whichdirectlyfusesthe
fieldrepresentationsintoasingledensevectorfor
agivenresumeorajobpost(Figure1).
4.3 Baselines
We compareCONFIT against both recent best
person-jobfitsystemsandstrongbaselinesfrom
informationretrievalsystems.
Recentperson-jobfitsystemscanbegrouped
into twocategories: classification-targetedand
ranking-targeted.Thebestclassification-targeted
systemincludeMV-CoN(Bianetal.,2020)and
InEXIT(Shaoetal.,2023). MV-CoNconsiders
aco-teachingnetwork(Hanetal.,2018)tolearn
fromsparse,noisyperson-jobfitdata,andInEXIT
useshierarchicalattentiontomodel interactions
betweenthetextfieldsofaresume-jobpair.Both
methodsoptimizefortheclassificationtask.The
best ranking-targeted systems includeDPGNN
(Yanget al., 2022). DPGNNconsidersadual
perspectivegraphviewofperson-jobfitanduses
aBPRloss(Rendleetal.,2012) tooptimizefor
resumeandjobranking.
Wealsocompareagainstmethodsfrominfor
mationretrievalsystemssuchas:BM25(Robert
sonandZaragoza,2009;Trotmanetal.,2014)and
RawEmbed. BM25isastrongbaselineusedfor
manytextrankingtasks(Thakuretal.,2021;Wang
etal.,2022;Kamallooetal.,2023),andRawEm
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
XGBoost
BoW 14.42 11.84 3.89 2.98 49.51 37.74 41.67 6.67 6.25 13.63 12.53 69.57 72.00 54.14
TF-IDF 10.18 7.87 4.11 2.94 55.00 43.75 43.75 5.56 4.96 13.85 13.21 68.78 69.16 55.64
BERT-base 8.45 7.69 5.57 5.24 61.01 50.98 54.17 5.34 5.10 13.45 12.22 70.63 73.27 55.64
RawEmbed. E5-small 28.61 33.88 25.48 30.26 54.20 42.86 31.25 16.06 17.89 20.26 22.84 38.64 27.78 22.56
BERT-base 13.07 13.94 4.41 3.62 49.25 34.38 22.92 9.18 10.63 12.35 12.63 46.71 40.00 40.60
MV-CoN BERT-base 10.81 10.00 3.34 2.17 58.00 50.00 33.33 5.41 5.15 13.44 12.67 74.25 72.22 68.32
InEXIT BERT-base 12.27 12.98 4.11 3.46 55.55 44.74 35.42 5.25 4.98 13.02 12.30 71.75 66.67 72.18
DPGNN BERT-base 19.64 21.95 17.86 19.60 61.16 52.38 45.83 19.96 24.64 27.23 30.07 50.31 45.24 57.14
BM25-39.13 44.96 37.88 43.15---34.71 40.56 27.30 31.18--
Ours BERT-base 44.47 49.51 39.57 45.67 63.78 55.81 50.00 30.79 37.71 36.13 41.65 47.16 41.10 45.11
Table3:Comparingrankingandclassificationperformanceofvariousapproacheswhenasmallencoderisused.F1
isweightedF1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+andRcl+areprecisionandrecallforpositiveclasses.Resultsfor
non-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upisingray.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
XGBoost
BoW 14.42 11.84 3.89 2.98 49.51 37.74 41.67 6.67 6.25 13.63 12.53 69.57 72.00 54.14
TF-IDF 10.18 7.87 4.11 2.94 55.00 43.75 43.75 5.56 4.96 13.85 13.21 68.78 69.16 55.64
text-ada-002 9.87 9.94 4.15 3.58 62.43 53.19 52.08 6.40 6.08 13.46 12.93 62.43 53.19 52.08
RawEmbed.
xlm-roberta-l 14.46 14.95 13.22 13.94 51.27 40.00 16.67 7.07 6.90 11.25 10.75 53.48 47.62 52.63
E5-large 35.10 40.10 26.93 30.61 59.39 51.43 37.50 32.11 37.45 24.56 28.15 44.67 35.64 27.07
text-ada-002 42.85 48.11 43.28 51.11 58.92 48.89 45.83 31.47 37.06 21.94 24.80 39.72 32.35 33.08
MV-CoN E5-large 12.23 10.98 4.06 3.09 52.75 40.51 27.08 5.60 5.15 12.92 12.67 70.85 77.53 51.88
InEXIT E5-large 13.60 13.63 3.14 1.91 55.17 45.16 29.17 5.49 4.33 13.39 13.21 70.41 74.74 53.58
DPGNN E5-large 21.31 24.08 13.90 17.69 55.56 48.00 25.00 33.98 40.63 42.76 46.98 53.88 48.03 45.86
BM25- 39.13 44.96 37.88 43.15---34.71 40.56 27.30 31.18--
Ours E5-large 43.08 50.28 42.88 51.74 54.09 45.21 68.75 64.32 71.71 59.13 65.91 59.71 53.66 66.17
Table4:Comparingrankingandclassificationperformanceofvariousapproacheswhenalargerencoderisused.F1
isweightedF1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+andRcl+areprecisionandrecallforpositiveclasses.Resultsfor
non-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upisingray.
bedisbasedondenseretrievalmethods(Karpukhin
etal.,2020;Johnsonetal.,2019)thatdirectlycon
catenatesalltextfieldsandusesapre-traineden
coder toproduceasingledenseembeddingfor
innerproductscoring. Finally,wealsoconsider
XGBoost(ChenandGuestrin,2016)asageneric
methodforclassificationandrankingtasks,where
featurescanbeBag-of-Words(BoW),TF-IDFvec
tors,andpre-trainedembeddingsfromRawEmbed.
Unlessotherwiseindicated,CONFITfirstuses
dataaugmentationwithbothEDAandChatGPT,
eachaugmenting500resumesand500jobsfor
eachdataset(Section3.1),followedbycontrastive
learningwithB=8andBhard=8(Section3.2).
SeeAppendixDforotherhyperparametersusedby
CONFIT,andseeAppendixCformoreimplemen
tationdetailsofthebaselines.
4.4 Metrics
Followingpriorwork (Karpukhinet al., 2020;
Yangetal.,2022),weuseMeanAveragePreci
sion(MAP)andnormalizedDiscountedCumula
tiveGain(nDCG)tomeasuretherankingability
ofeachmethod.Sincemostresume-jobpairsare
unlabeled,wereportnDCG@10.Tomeasurethe
fine-grainedclassificationabilityofamethod,we
followpriorworkinperson-jobfit(Qinetal.,2018;
Zhuetal.,2018;Bianetal.,2020;Shaoetal.,2023)
anduseweightedF1,precision,andrecall.Since
correctlypredictingapositivesample(i.e.,asuit
ablejobforaresume)isimportantinpractice,we
reportprecisionandrecall for thepositiveclass
(denotedasPrc+andRcl+,respectively).
4.5 MainResults
Table3 summarizesCONFIT’s performance in
comparisontootherbaselines,whenanencoder
with∼180Mparametersisusedasthebackbone.
This includesusingBERT-base4 (Devlinet al.,
2019)andE5-small(Wangetal.,2022). Ingen
eral,wefindthatclassification-targetedsystems
4SincetheAliYundataset issolelyinChinese,weuse
BERT-base-chinesefortheAliYundatasetandBERT-base
multilingual-casedfortheIntelliprodataset.
such as MV-CoN and InEXIT achieve a high F1
score but have poor ranking ability, while ranking
targeted methods such as RawEmbed, DPGNN, and
BM25 perform much better in ranking. With a
small encoder model, we find CONFIT achieves
the best ranking performance in three out of the
four tasks, and BM25 achieves the best in the re
maining task. CONFIT also achieves the best F1
score on the Intellipro classification task compared
to other classification-targeted systems.
Table 4 summarizes each method’s performance
when a larger backbone encoder (∼560M parame
ters) is used. This includes multilingual-E5-large
(Wang et al., 2022), xlm-roberta-large (Conneau
102
Runtime (s)
101
100
MIPS (ConFit, RawEmbed)
Non-linear (MV-CoN, InEXIT, DPGNN)
100
1000
10000
Number of job posts to rank
Figure 2: Runtime comparison between neural-based
methods. MIPS are maximum inner product search
methods that are supported by FAISS (Johnson et al.,
2019). Non-linear methods require an additional for
ward pass to produce a score between a resume-job pair.
et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2019), or OpenAI text-ada
0025 (OpenAI, 2022a). Similar to Table 3, we
find that classification-targeted methods such as
MV-CoN reach a high F1 score, while ranking
targeted methods achieve a better MAP and nDCG
score. We also find that CONFIT now achieves the
best ranking performances in all cases, except for
the MAP score in the IntelliPro’s job ranking task.
We believe this is because the IntelliPro dataset
contains much less data compared to the AliYun
dataset (Table 1). In the AliYun dataset, CONFIT
improves up to ∼30% absolute in MAP and nDCG
score for ranking resumes and up to ∼20% for
ranking jobs. We believe this is because the AliYun
dataset not only has more data, but also uses much
shorter and concise texts compared to the Intellipro
dataset (Table 1). Lastly, we find CONFIT remains
competitive in classification task for both datasets,
despite not directly optimizing for them.
4.6 Runtime Analysis
A practical recruitment system needs to quickly
rank a large number of resumes given a job post,
or vice versa. We measure the runtime to rank
100; 1,000; and 10,000 jobs for a given resume
from the AliYun dataset, and compare the speed of
various neural-based methods from Table 3. We
present the results in Figure 2. In general, methods
that ranks by inner product search (RawEmbed and
CONFIT) can utilize FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019)
to achieve a runtime in milliseconds in all cases6.
However, methods such as MV-CoN, InEXIT, and
DPGNN requires a (partial) forward pass for each
resume-job pair to produce a score between (see
Appendix F for more details). We believe this is
5Model size unknown.
6After embedding all relevant resume and job posts, which
only needs to be computed once.
Results are averages over three runs.
highly inefficient, especially when the number of
documents to rank (e.g., job posts) is large.
4.7 Ablation Studies
Table 5 presents our ablation studies for each com
ponent of CONFIT training. We focus on using
BERT-base from Table 3 as it is less resource
intensive to train.
First, we consider CONFIT to only use con
trastive learning (denoted as +contrastive) un
der various settings, such as B = 8,Bhard =
{0,2,4,8}. In Table 5, we find that: a) increas
ing the number of hard negatives (Bhard) improves
ranking performance, and b) using contrastive
learning alone already outperforms many baselines
in Table 3. This suggests that contrastive learning
plays a major role in CONFIT’s performance.
Next, we add data augmentation to training, and
measure the performance of: 1) using only Chat
GPT to augment 500 resumes and jobs, denoted
as ChatGPT only; 2) using EDA to augment 500
resumes and jobs, denoted EDA only; 3) using EDA
to augment all resume/job seen during training, de
noted as EDA-all; and 4) combining both 1) and
2), denoted as +Data Aug. In general, we find
combining both ChatGPT and EDA augmentation
can most often achieve the best performance. We
believe this is because such approach includes both
semantically paraphrased content from ChatGPT
and syntactically altered content (e.g., inserting
or removing words) from EDA. Especially for the
AliYun dataset, we find using any form of data aug
mentation improves over using contrastive learn
ing alone. We believe this is because AliYun’s re
sume/job texts are much shorter and more concise
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Modification MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
+contrastive 42.96 49.28 42.23 49.21 59.17 56.00 29.17 27.53 33.34 34.05 37.83 47.60 40.77 39.85
Bhard=0 31.15 36.88 38.94 44.89 52.02 44.16 70.83 13.73 15.43 32.52 37.23 43.31 34.51 29.32
Bhard=2 41.85 47.77 41.24 47.46 56.14 56.58 19.79 25.42 31.08 31.59 35.64 45.65 38.64 38.35
Bhard=4 40.86 45.69 41.29 47.78 61.69 62.36 33.33 25.60 30.65 32.72 36.15 44.51 38.67 43.61
+DataAug. 44.47 49.51 39.57 45.67 63.78 55.81 50.00 30.79 37.71 36.13 41.65 47.16 41.10 45.11
ChatGPTonly 41.36 47.45 39.54 46.98 58.75 71.43 20.83 29.69 35.59 35.11 40.13 47.00 39.67 36.09
EDAonly 39.49 46.03 40.25 46.03 60.64 65.00 27.08 27.06 33.08 34.69 39.16 46.30 38.39 32.33
EDA-all 39.03 45.56 40.09 45.76 60.64 65.00 27.08 28.21 33.77 33.77 38.13 45.59 37.82 33.83
Table5:CONFITablationstudies.CONFITusescontrastivelearning(+contrastive)withBhard=8,andData
Augmentation(+DataAug.)withbothChatGPTandEDA.Bestresultineachablationgroupishighlightedinbold.
100 0 100
100
0
100
others
Business Management
Software Engineering
Human Resources
Figure3:VisualizingresumeembeddingsfromCONFIT
usingt-SNE.Colorsareassignedusingeachresume’s
desiredindustry. Top-3most frequent industriesare
color-codedforeasierviewing.
thanthoseof theIntelliprodataset, thusmaking
dataaugmentationeasiertoperform.
SinceCONFITtrainingismodel-agnostic,we
alsoexperimentwithcompletelyremovingneural
networks, andonlyuseTF-IDFrepresentations
withXGBoost.Despiteseeingperformancedegra
dationcomparedtoCONFITwithpretraineden
coders,wefindthisapproachisstillcompetitive
againstpriorbestperson-jobfitsystemsthatuses
BERT(seeAppendixGandTableA4formore
details).Thissuggeststhatthecontrastivelearning
anddataaugmentationprocedurefromCONFITis
effectivefortheperson-jobfittask.
5 Analysis
Inthissection,weprovidebothqualitativevisual
izationandquantitativeanalysisoftheembeddings
learnedbyCONFIT.WemainlyfocusontheIntel
liprodatasetasitismorechallenging.
5.1 QualitativeAnalysis
CONFITaimstolearnahigh-qualityembedding
spaceforaresumeorajobpost. InFigure3we
visualizetheresumeembeddingslearnedbyCON
FIT.WeuseCONFITwithBERT-base(seeTable3)
toembedall1457resumesfromthetestsetinthe
Intelliprodataset,andperformdimensionalityre
ductionusingt-SNE(vanderMaatenandHinton,
2008). InFigure3,wefindCONFITlearnedto
clusterresumesbasedonimportantfieldssuchas
“DesiredIndustry”.Webelievethisisconsistent
withhowahumanwoulddetermineperson-jobfit,
asresumesaimingforsimilarindustriesarelikely
tocontainsimilarsetsofexperiencesandskills.For
comparisonwithembeddingsgeneratedbyother
baselines,pleaseseeAppendixH.
5.2 ErrorAnalysis
ToanalyzetheerrorsmadebyCONFIT,wemanu
allyinspect30negativeresume-jobpairsfromthe
rankingtasksthatareincorrectlyrankedattop5%
andisbeforeatleastonepositivepair,and20pairs
fromtheclassificationtaskthatwasincorrectlypre
dictedasamatch.Foreachincorrectlyrankedor
classifiedpair,wecompareagainstotherpositive
resume-jobpairsfromthedataset,andcategorize
theerrorswiththefollowingcriteria:unsuitable,
wheresomerequirementsinthejobpostarenot
satisfiedbytheresume; lesscompetent,wherea
resumesatisfiesall jobrequirements, butmany
competingcandidateshaveahigherdegree/more
experience;out-of-scope,wherearesumesatisfies
allrequirements,appearscompetitivecomparedto
othercandidates,but isstillrejectedduetoother
(e.g.,subjective)reasonsnotpresentedinourre
sume/jobdatathemselves;andpotentiallysuitable,
wherearesumefromtherankingtaskssatisfiedthe
requirementsandseemedcompetent,buthadno
labelintheoriginaldataset.
Wepresentouranalysis inFigure4, andfind
thatasignificantportionoferrorsareout-of-scope,
wherewebelieveinformationinresumes/jobposts
et al., 2020), which uses a co-teaching network
(Malach and Shalev-Shwartz, 2018) to perform gra
8.0%
20.0%
28.0%
unsuitable
potentially suitable
less competent
44.0% out-of-scope
Figure 4: CONFIT error analysis. We find 44% of the
errors made are due to reasons not identifiable using
resume/job documents alone, and 28% due to a candi
date’s resume satisfying all the job requirements but is
less competent than other competing candidates.
is limited. The next most frequent error is less
competent, which is understandable since CON
FIT scores a resume-job pair independent of other
competing candidates. Lastly, we also find that
about 20% of the wrong predictions were unsuit
able, with resumes not satisfying certain job re
quirements such as “4 years+ with Docker, K8s”.
We believe unsuitable errors may be mitigated by
combining CONFIT with better feature engineering
techniques along with keyword-based approaches
(such as BM25), which we leave for future work.
6 Related Work
Person-job fit systems Early neural-based meth
ods in person-job fit (Guo et al., 2016) typically
focus on network architecture to obtain a good rep
resentation of a job post or a resume. These meth
ods include Qin et al. (2018); Zhu et al. (2018);
Rezaeipourfarsangi and Milios (2023); Jiang et al.
(2020); Mhatre et al. (2023), which explores archi
tectures such as RNN, LSTM (Staudemeyer and
Morris, 2019) and CNN (O’Shea and Nash, 2015).
Recent deep learning methods include Maheshwary
and Misra (2018); Rezaeipourfarsangi and Milios
(2023), which uses deep siamese network to learn
an embedding space for resume/jobs, Bian et al.
(2019) which uses a hierarchical RNN to improve
domain-adaptation of person-job fit systems, and
Zhang et al. (2023) which uses federated learning
to perform model training while preserving user
privacy. However, as person-job fit systems involve
sensitive data, most systems do not open-source
datasets or implementations, and are often opti
mized for one particular dataset. Recent work with
public implementations includes MV-CoN (Bian
dient updates based model’s confidence to data
noises; InEXIT (Shao et al., 2023), which uses
hierarchical attention to model resume-job inter
actions; and DPGNN (Yang et al., 2022), which
uses a graph-based approach with a novel BPR loss
to optimize for resume/job ranking. CONFIT uses
contrastive learning and data augmentation tech
niques based on powerful pre-trained models such
as BERT (Devlin et al., 2019), and achieves the
best performance in almost all ranking and classifi
cation tasks across two person-job fit datasets.
Information retrieval systems CONFIT bene
fits from contrastive learning techniques, which
have seen wide applications in many information
retrieval and representation learning tasks (Chen
et al., 2020; Radford et al., 2021). Given a query
(e.g., user-generated question), an information re
trieval system aims to find top-k relevant passages
from a large reserve of candidate passages (Joshi
et al., 2017; Kwiatkowski et al., 2019). Popular
methods in information retrieval include BM25
(Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009; Trotman et al.,
2014), a keyword-based approach used as the base
line in many text ranking tasks (Nguyen et al., 2016;
Thakur et al., 2021; Muennighoff et al., 2022),
and dense retrieval methods such as Karpukhin
et al. (2020); Izacard et al. (2021); Wang et al.
(2022), which uses contrastive learning to obtain
high-quality passage embeddings and typically per
forms top-k search based on inner product. To our
knowledge, CONFIT is the first attempt to use con
trastive learning for person-job fit, achieving the
best performances in almost all person-job ranking
tasks across two different person-job fit datasets.
7 Conclusion
We propose CONFIT, a general-purpose approach
to model person-job fit. CONFIT trains a neural
network using contrastive learning to obtain a high
quality embedding space for resumes and job posts,
and uses data augmentation to alleviate data spar
sity in person-job fit datasets. Our experiments
across two person-job fit datasets show that CON
FIT achieves the best performance in almost all
ranking and classification tasks. We believe CON
FIT is easily extensible, and can be used as a strong
foundation for future research on person-job fit.
8 Limitations
Jentzsch and Turan, 2022; Caliskan et al., 2022).
Recruiter/Job Seeker Preference CONFIT pro
duces dense representations for resumes and jobs
independently, and uses inner-product to score the
resume-job pair. While this approach can be easily
combined with retrieval methods such as FAISS
(Johnson et al., 2019) to efficiently rank a large
number of resumes/jobs, it ignores certain aspects
of how a real recruiter or a job seeker may choose
a resume or a job. In our error analysis (Sec
tion 5.2), we find a significant portion of incorrectly
ranked/rated resume-job pairs could be either due
to subjective choices made by the recruiters, or due
to a very competitive candidate pool for a certain
job position. This suggests that additionally mod
eling the recruiter or job seeker’s past preferences
(e.g., using profiling approaches (Yan et al., 2019)
from recommendation systems (Eliyas and Ran
jana, 2022)) may be beneficial, and that developing
a scoring metric that is aware of the other candi
dates in the pool could also be useful. In general,
we believe CONFIT embeddings would serve as a
foundation for these approaches, and we leave this
for future work.
Sensitive Data To our knowledge, there is no
standardized, public person-job fit dataset7 that
can be used to compare performances of existing
systems (Zhu et al., 2018; Qin et al., 2018; Bian
et al., 2020; Yang et al., 2022; Shao et al., 2023).
This is understandable, as resume contents con
tain highly sensitive information and that large
scale person-job datasets are often proprietary. We
provide our best effort to make CONFIT repro
ducible and extensible for future work: we will
open-source full implementations of CONFIT and
all relevant baselines, our data processing scripts,
and dummy train/valid/test data files that can be
used test drive our system end-to-end. We will
also privately release our model weights and full
datasets to researchers under appropriate license
agreements. We hope these attempts can make
future research in person-job fit more accessible.
9 Ethical Considerations
CONFIT uses pretrained encoders such as BERT
and E5 (Devlin et al., 2019; Wang et al., 2022), and
it is well-known that many powerful encoders con
tain biases (Brunet et al., 2019; May et al., 2019;
7The AliYun dataset used in this work is no longer publicly
available as of 09-11-2023.
For person-job fit systems, we believe it is crucial
to ensure that the systems do not bias towards cer
tain groups of people, such as preferring a certain
gender for certain jobs. Although both datasets
used in this work already removed any sensitive
information such as gender, we do not recommend
directly deploying CONFIT for real-world applica
tions without using debiasing techniques such as
Bolukbasi et al. (2016); Cheng et al. (2021); Gaci
et al. (2022); Guo et al. (2022); Schick et al. (2021),
and we do not condone the use of CONFIT for any
morally unjust purposes. To our knowledge, there
is little work on investigating or mitigating biases
in existing person-job fit systems, and we believe
this is an important direction for future work.
References
Shuqing Bian, Xu Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou,
Yupeng Hou, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2020. Learning to match jobs with resumes
from sparse interaction data using multi-view co
teaching network.
Shuqing Bian, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yang Song, Tao Zhang,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2019. Domain adaptation for
person-job fit with transferable deep global match
network. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu
ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
4810–4820, HongKong, China.Association for Com
putational Linguistics.
Tolga Bolukbasi, Kai-Wei Chang, James Zou,
Venkatesh Saligrama, and Adam Kalai. 2016. Man is
to computer programmer as woman is to homemaker?
debiasing word embeddings.
Dorian Brown. 2020. Rank-BM25: A Collection of
BM25 Algorithms in Python.
Marc-Etienne Brunet, Colleen Alkalay-Houlihan, Ash
ton Anderson, and Richard Zemel. 2019. Under
standing the origins of bias in word embeddings. In
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pages 803–811. PMLR.
Aylin Caliskan, Pimparkar Parth Ajay, Tessa
Charlesworth, Robert Wolfe, and Mahzarin R.
Banaji. 2022. Gender bias in word embeddings: A
comprehensive analysis of frequency, syntax, and
semantics. In Proceedings of the 2022 AAAI/ACM
Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, AIES ’22.
ACM.
Jan Cegin, Jakub Simko, and Peter Brusilovsky. 2023.
Chatgpt to replace crowdsourcing of paraphrases for
intent classification: Higher diversity and comparable
for entity retrieval. In Proceedings of the 23rd Con
model robustness.
Tianqi Chen and Carlos Guestrin. 2016. Xgboost: A
scalable tree boosting system. In Proceedings of the
22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD ’16.
ACM.
Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and
Geoffrey Hinton. 2020. A simple framework for
contrastive learning of visual representations.
Pengyu Cheng, Weituo Hao, Siyang Yuan, Shijing Si,
and Lawrence Carin. 2021. Fairfil: Contrastive neu
ral debiasing method for pretrained text encoders.
Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco
Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Unsupervised
cross-lingual representation learning at scale. CoRR,
abs/1911.02116.
Haixing Dai, Zhengliang Liu, Wenxiong Liao, Xiaoke
Huang, Yihan Cao, Zihao Wu, Lin Zhao, Shaochen
Xu, Wei Liu, Ninghao Liu, Sheng Li, Dajiang Zhu,
Hongmin Cai, Lichao Sun, Quanzheng Li, Dinggang
Shen, Tianming Liu, and Xiang Li. 2023. Auggpt:
Leveraging chatgpt for text data augmentation.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understand
ing.
Sherin Eliyas and P Ranjana. 2022. Recommendation
systems: Content-based filtering vs collaborative fil
tering. In 2022 2nd International Conference on
Advance Computing and Innovative Technologies in
Engineering (ICACITE), pages 1360–1365. IEEE.
William Falcon and The PyTorch Lightning team. 2019.
PyTorch Lightning.
Yacine Gaci, Boualem Benatallah, Fabio Casati, and
Khalid Benabdeslem. 2022. Debiasing pretrained
text encoders by paying attention to paying attention.
In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empiri
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
9582–9602, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. 2021.
SimCSE: Simple contrastive learning of sentence em
beddings. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process
ing, pages 6894–6910, Online and Punta Cana, Do
minican Republic. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Daniel Gillick, Sayali Kulkarni, Larry Lansing, Alessan
dro Presta, Jason Baldridge, Eugene Ie, and Diego
ference on Computational Natural Language Learn
ing (CoNLL), pages 528–537, Hong Kong, China.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Shiqiang Guo, Folami Alamudun, and Tracy Hammond.
2016. Résumatcher: A personalized résumé-job
matching system. Expert Systems with Applications,
60:169–182.
Yue Guo, Yi Yang, and Ahmed Abbasi. 2022. Auto
debias: Debiasing masked language models with
automated biased prompts. In Proceedings of the
60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu
tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
1012–1023, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Bo Han, Quanming Yao, Xingrui Yu, Gang Niu, Miao
Xu, Weihua Hu, Ivor Tsang, and Masashi Sugiyama.
2018. Co-teaching: Robust training of deep neural
networks with extremely noisy labels.
Mansoor Iqbal. 2023. LinkedIn usage and revenue
statistics (2023). a. Accessed: 2023-12-29.
Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Se
bastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin,
and Edouard Grave. 2021. Unsupervised dense infor
mation retrieval with contrastive learning.
Sophie Jentzsch and Cigdem Turan. 2022. Gender bias
in BERT- measuring and analysing biases through
sentiment rating in a realistic downstream classifica
tion task. In Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Gen
der Bias in Natural Language Processing (GeBNLP),
pages 184–199, Seattle, Washington. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Junshu Jiang, Songyun Ye, Wei Wang, Jingran Xu, and
Xiaosheng Luo. 2020. Learning effective representa
tions for person-job fit by feature fusion.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019.
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. IEEE
Transactions on Big Data, 7(3):535–547.
Mandar Joshi, Eunsol Choi, Daniel S. Weld, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2017. Triviaqa: A large scale distantly
supervised challenge dataset for reading comprehen
sion.
Ehsan Kamalloo, Nandan Thakur, Carlos Lassance,
Xueguang Ma, Jheng-Hong Yang, and Jimmy Lin.
2023. Resources for brewing beir: Reproducible
reference models and an official leaderboard.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O˘guz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen, and
Wen tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval for open
domain question answering.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Red
field, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris Alberti,
Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Matthew Kelcey,
Garcia-Olano. 2019. Learning dense representations
Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina N. Toutanova,
25–34, New York, NY, USA. Association for Com
Llion Jones, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew Dai, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natu
ral questions: a benchmark for question answering
research. Transactions of the Association of Compu
tational Linguistics.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining ap
proach.
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2019. Decoupled
weight decay regularization.
Yuanhua Lv and ChengXiang Zhai. 2011. When doc
uments are very long, bm25 fails! In Proceedings
of the 34th International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval,
SIGIR ’11, page 1103–1104, New York, NY, USA.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Saket Maheshwary and Hemant Misra. 2018. Matching
resumes to jobs via deep siamese network. Compan
ion Proceedings of the The Web Conference 2018.
Eran Malach and Shai Shalev-Shwartz. 2018. Decou
pling "when to update" from "how to update".
Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R.
Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. 2019. On measuring
social biases in sentence encoders. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chap
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and
Short Papers), pages 622–628, Minneapolis, Min
nesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sonali Mhatre, Bhawana Dakhare, Vaibhav Ankolekar,
Neha Chogale, Rutuja Navghane, and Pooja Gotarne.
2023. Resume screening and ranking using convolu
tional neural network. In 2023 International Confer
ence on Sustainable Computing and Smart Systems
(ICSCSS), pages 412–419.
Niklas Muennighoff, Nouamane Tazi, Loïc Magne, and
Nils Reimers. 2022. Mteb: Massive text embedding
benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.07316.
Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng
Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, and
Li Deng. 2016. MS MARCO: A human gener
ated machine reading comprehension dataset. CoRR,
abs/1611.09268.
OpenAI. 2022a. New and improved embedding model.
OpenAI. 2022b. OpenAI: Introducing ChatGPT.
Keiron O’Shea and Ryan Nash. 2015. An introduction
to convolutional neural networks.
Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Tong Xu, Chen Zhu, Liang
Jiang, Enhong Chen, and Hui Xiong. 2018. Enhanc
ing person-job fit for talent recruitment: An ability
aware neural network approach. In The 41st Inter
national ACM SIGIR Conference on Research & De
velopment in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’18, page
puting Machinery.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas
try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn
ing transferable visual models from natural language
supervision.
Samyam Rajbhandari, Jeff Rasley, Olatunji Ruwase,
and Yuxiong He. 2020. Zero: Memory optimizations
toward training trillion parameter models.
Steffen Rendle, Christoph Freudenthaler, Zeno Gantner,
and Lars Schmidt-Thieme. 2012. Bpr: Bayesian
personalized ranking from implicit feedback.
Sima Rezaeipourfarsangi and Evangelos E. Milios.
2023. Ai-powered resume-job matching: A docu
ment ranking approach using deep neural networks.
In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Document
Engineering 2023, DocEng ’23, New York, NY, USA.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. 2009. The
probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and be
yond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr., 3(4):333–389.
TimoSchick, Sahana Udupa, and Hinrich Schütze. 2021.
Self-diagnosis and self-debiasing: A proposal for re
ducing corpus-based bias in NLP. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:1408
1424.
Taihua Shao, Chengyu Song, Jianming Zheng, Fei Cai,
and Honghui Chen. 2023. Exploring internal and
external interactions for semi-structured multivariate
attributes in job-resume matching. In International
Journal of Intelligent Systems.
Ralf C. Staudemeyer and Eric Rothstein Morris. 2019.
Understanding lstm– a tutorial into long short-term
memory recurrent neural networks.
Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Ab
hishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. 2021. Beir:
A heterogenous benchmark for zero-shot evaluation
of information retrieval models.
Andrew Trotman, Antti Puurula, and Blake Burgess.
2014. Improvements to bm25 and language models
examined. In Proceedings of the 19th Australasian
Document Computing Symposium, ADCS ’14, page
58–65, New York, NY, USA. Association for Com
puting Machinery.
Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. 2008.
Visualizing data using t-sne. Journal of Machine
Learning Research, 9(86):2579–2605.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2023. Attention is all
you need.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing
Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder,
and Furu Wei. 2022. Text embeddings by weakly
supervised contrastive pre-training.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao,
Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Majumder, and
Furu Wei. 2023. SimLM: Pre-training with repre
sentation bottleneck for dense passage retrieval. In
Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the As
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 2244–2258, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Jason Wei and Kai Zou. 2019. EDA: Easy data augmen
tation techniques for boosting performance on text
classification tasks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP
IJCNLP), pages 6383–6389, Hong Kong, China. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Rui Yan, Ran Le, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Xiangliang
Zhang, and Dongyan Zhao. 2019. Interview choice
reveals your preference on the market: To improve
job-resume matching through profiling memories. In
Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Min
ing, KDD ’19, page 914–922, New York, NY, USA.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Chen Yang, Yupeng Hou, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Ji
Rong Wen, and Wayne Xin Zhao. 2022. Modeling
two-way selection preference for person-job fit. In
RecSys.
Yunchong Zhang, Baisong Liu, and Jiangbo Qian.
2023. Fedpjf: federated contrastive learning for
privacy-preserving person-job fit. Applied Intelli
gence, 53:27060– 27071.
Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, Chao Ma, Fang
Xie, Pengliang Ding, and Pan Li. 2018. Person-job
fit: Adapting the right talent for the right job with
joint representation learning.
A More Details on Dataset and
Preprocessing
Intellipro Dataset The talent-job pairs come
from the headhunting business in Intellipro Group
Inc. The original resumes/job posts are parsed into
text fields using techniques such as OCR. Some of
the information is further corrected by humans. All
sensitive information, such as names, contacts, col
lege names, and company names, has been either
removed or converted into numeric IDs. Example
resume and job post are shown in Table A2 and
Table A3, respectively.
AliYun Dataset The 2019 Alibaba job-resume
intelligent matching competition provided resume
job data that is already desensitized and parsed into
a collection of text fields. There are 12 fields in
a resume (Table A2) and 11 fields in a job post
(Table A3) used during training/validation/testing.
Sensitive fields such as “居住城市” (living city)
were already converted into numeric IDs. “工作经
验”(work experience) was processed into a list of
keywords. Overall, the average length of a resume
or a job post in the AliYun dataset is much shorter
than that of the Intellipro dataset (see Table 1).
In our analysis, we also manually remapped the
industries mentioned in the AliYun dataset into 20
categories such as “Agriculture”, “Manufacturing”,
“Financial Services”, etc., to be more comparable
with the Intellipro dataset.
B More Details on Model Architecture
In this work, all data (resumes and job posts) are
formatted as a collection of text fields. We sim
plify the model architecture from InEXIT (Shao
et al., 2023) to produce a single dense vector for
a job post or a resume. InEXIT first encodes each
field independently using a pre-trained encoder, by
encoding the field name (e.g., “education”) and
the value (e.g., “Bachelor; major: Computer Sci
ence...) separately and then concatenating the two
representations to obtain a representation for the
entire field. Then, InEXIT models the “internal
interaction” between fields from the same docu
ment using a self-attention layer. Next, InEXIT
views resume-job matching as a non-linear interac
tion between the fields from a resume-job pair, and
uses another self-attention to model the “external
interaction” between all representations from both
documents. Finally, InEXIT merges the represen
tations obtained so far into a dense vector for a
Validation
Intellipro Dataset Aliyun Dataset
# Jobs
# Resumes
# Labels
109
120
120
299
278
300
Table A1: Validation dataset statistics
resume/job, concatenates the dense vectors to rep
resent an resume-job pair, and finally uses an MLP
layer to produce a matching score.
Compared to concatenating all text fields into
a single string and using an encoder to directly
produce an embedding, this approach of encod
ing each text field independently can effectively
increase maximum context length (often 512). For
example, we find fields such as “Experiences” and
“Projects” in a resume from the Intellipro dataset
often contain long texts. By encoding each field
independently, we can include up to 512 tokens
from each field, compared to 512 tokens in total
if the two fields are concatenated. We believe this
is particularly suitable for modeling resume and
job posts, as text fields (i.e., sections) from a re
sume/job post can be understood independently of
other fields.
Since CONFIT models resume-job match using
inner product (compatible with efficient retrieval
frameworks such as FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019)),
we propose a few simplications to InEXIT’s model
architecture. First, since field names (e.g. “educa
tion”, “experiences”) are short, we directly concate
nate them with the value to obtain a single string for
each field (e.g., “education: Bachelor in Computer
Science, ...”). We then use a pre-trained encoder to
directly obtain a representation for the entire field.
Next, we follow InEXIT to use self-attention in a
transformer layer to model the “internal interaction”
between fields from the same document. After that,
as we aim to model a resume and a job as dense
vectors independent of each other, we remove the
self-attention layer and the final MLP layer used to
model a non-linear interaction between a resume
job pair. Instead, we use a linear layer to merge
the representations for each text field, and output a
dense vector for a resume or a job. This can then
be used to perform inner product scoring, and can
be combined with FAISS (see Section 4.6) to rank
thousands of documents under miliseconds.
C More Details on Baselines
XGBoost We use “XGBoost-classifier” (Chen
and Guestrin, 2016) for classification based metrics,
RfromIntelliproDataset RfromAliYunDataset
UserID:xxxxx UserID:xxxxx
Languages:ENGLISH;学历:大专;
Education:start_date:xxxx-xx-xx;年龄:24;
end_date:xxxx-xx-xx;开始工作时间:2018;
college_ranking:20;居住城市:551;
major_name:ComputerScience;期望工作城市:551,763,-;
degree:BACHELOR;期望工作类型:工程造价/预结算
Location:city_id:115;期望工作行业:房地产/建筑/工程
province_id:827;当前工作类型:土木/建筑/装修/...
country_id:14;当前工作行业:房地产/建筑/工程
PreferredLocations:city_id:115;期望薪资:xxxx-xxxx元/月
province_id:827;当前薪资:xxxx-xxxx元/月
country_id:14;工作经验:停车｜现场｜专家｜公园｜...
Industry:SOFTWARE_ENGINEERING; //otherentriesomitted
Skills:azure;python;... //otherentriesomitted
Experiences: title:MachineLearningEngineer;
start_date:2017-09;
end_date:UNKNOWN;
company_ranking:-1;
location:UNKNOWN;
description:LeadseveralMLOpsprojects...
title:SoftwareEngineer;... //otherentriesomitted
Projects:project_name:xxxxx;
title:Leader;
start_date:xxxx-xx-xx;
end_date:xxxx-xx-xx;
description:Deploytemplate-based...
TableA2:ExampleresumefromtheIntelliprodatasetandAliYundataset.TheIntelliprodatasetcontainsresumesin
bothEnglishandChinese,whiletheAliYundatasetcontainsresumesonlyinChinese.Alldocumentsarepreparedas
acollectionoffields,displayedas:“fieldname:content”.Certaindetailsarehiddenforprivacyconcerns.User_ID
isremovedduringtraining/validation/testing.Fieldswithmultipleentries(e.g.,ExperiencesintheIntelliprodataset)
areconcatenatedusingnewlines.
JfromIntelliproDataset JfromAliYunDataset
JobID:xxxxx JobID:xxxxx
CompanyRank:12工作名称:工程预算
CompanyDescription:Energetic,excitingSiliconValleystartup.工作类型:工程/造价/预结算
JobTitle:DeepLearningSpecialist工作城市:719
JobLocation:city_id:123;招聘人数:3
province_id:335;薪资:最低xxxx-最高xxxx元每月
country_id:56招聘开始时间:2019xxxx
JobPositionType:Full-time;招聘结束时间:2019xxxx
JobDescription/Responsibilities: Usecomputervision, computa
tionalgeometry,and... //otherdetailsomitted
工作描述:工程预算员岗位职责：1.能够独
立完成...//otherdetailsomitted
RequiredQualifications/Skills:Strongprogrammingexperiencein
Python,C++,orJava;PhDinComputerScience,ElectricalEngi
neering,... //otherdetailsomitted
最低学历:大专
PreferredQualifications/Skills:UNKNOWN是否要求出差:0
工作年限:五年到十年
TableA3:ExamplejobpostsfromtheIntelliprodatasetandAliYundataset.TheIntelliprodatasetcontainsjob
postsinbothEnglishandChinese,whiletheAliYundatasetcontainsjobpostsonlyinChinese.Alldocuments
arepreparedasacollectionoffields,displayedas:“fieldname:content”.Certaindetailsareomitted.Job_IDis
removedduringtraining/validation/testing.
and“XGBoost-ranker”forrankingbasedmetricsin
Table3andTable4.Similartootherclassification
targetedmethodssuchasMV-CoNandInEXIT,we
useDwithout“contrastivelearning”.Hyperparam
eters are tuned using grid search, and classification
BERT), and keep other aspects the same, such as
thresholds are found using the validation set.
RawEmbed We first concatenate all fields in
a resume/job post into a single string, and use
pre-trained encoders such as BERT (Devlin et al.,
2019), E5 (Wang et al., 2022), xlm-roberta (Con
neau et al., 2019), and OpenAI text-ada-002 (Ope
nAI, 2022a) to produce a dense embedding. We use
inner product to produce a score for ranking tasks,
and use cosine similarity with a threshold found
using the validation set for classification tasks.
MV-CoN Wefollow the official implementations
from Bian et al. (2020), but replace the fixed em
bedding layer with the architecture shown in Sec
tion 4.2 and Figure 1, since our test set considers
unseen resumes and job posts. We use AdamW
optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019) with a
learning rate of 5e-6, a linear warm-up schedule
for the first 10% of the training steps, and a weight
decay of 1e-2 for both datasets. We use a batch size
of 4 with a gradient accumulation of 4 when a small
encoder (e.g., BERT-base) is used, and use Deep
Speed Zero 2 (Rajbhandari et al., 2020) with BF16
mixed precision training when a large encoder (e.g.,
E5-large) is used.
InEXIT We follow the official implementation
from Shao et al. (2023) to model both the “internal”
and “external” interaction between a resume-job
pair. We use AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and
Hutter, 2019) with a learning rate of 5e-6, a linear
warm-up schedule for the first 10% of the training
steps, and a weight decay of 1e-2 for both datasets.
We use a batch size of 8 with a gradient accumula
tion of 2 when a small encoder is used, and a batch
size of 4 with a gradient accumulation of 4 when a
large encoder is used.8
DPGNN Wefollow the official implementation
from Yang et al. (2022), but remove the fixed-size
embedding layer in the graph neural network for en
coding a resume or a job, since our test set consid
ers unseen resumes and job posts. We replace the
embedding layer with a pre-trained encoder (e.g.,
8In our experiment, we find that InEXIT (Shao et al., 2023)
performs slightly worse than MV-CoN (Bian et al., 2020) on
the AliYun dataset (see Table 3), while Shao et al. (2023)
reports the contrary. We believe this is because InEXIT con
siders a test setting where part of the resumes/job posts can
be seen in training, since training/validation/testing pairs are
simply randomly sampled. In contrast, in our experiment, we
consider test and validation set with only resumes/job posts
not seen during training.
modeling both the “active” and “passive” represen
tation of a resume or a job post. We also removed
the GraphCNN module as we do not have “interac
tion records” (e.g., recruiters reaching out to job
seekers) used to train this module, and the total
number of labels in our resume-job datasets is also
small. Finally, we modified the proposed BPR loss
(Yang et al., 2022) by first normalizing all embed
ding vectors, since we found training DPGNN with
the original BPR loss results in high numerical in
stability. We use AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov
and Hutter, 2019) with a learning rate of 1e-5, a
linear warm-up schedule for the first 5% of the
training steps, and a weight decay of 1e-2 for both
datasets. We use a batch size of 8 with a gradient
accumulation of 2 when using a small encoder, and
a batch size of 4 with a gradient accumulation of 4
when using a large encoder.
BM25 Since resumes in the Intellipro dataset can
be long, we use BM25L (Lv and Zhai, 2011; Trot
man et al., 2014) for ranking tasks. We use the
implementation from Brown (2020) with the de
fault hyperparameters.
In general, all neural-network-related code is im
plemented using PyTorch Lightning (Falcon and
The PyTorch Lightning team, 2019), and all train
ing is performed on a single A100 80GB GPU. We
train all models for 10 epochs and save the best
checkpoint based on validation loss for testing. On
average, it takes about 1 hour and 4 hours to train
MV-CoN, InEXIT, DPGNN using a small encoder
on the Intellipro dataset and the AliYun dataset,
respectively. When using a large encoder (e.g., E5
large), it takes about 5-8 hours and 19-24 hours
to train on the Intellipro dataset and the AliYun
dataset, respectively.
D CONFITTraining Hyperparameters
In general, CONFIT first performs data augmenta
tion using both ChatGPT and EDA (see Section 3.1
and Appendix E for more details), and then trains
the model architecture shown in Figure 1 using
contrastive learning (see Section 3.2). Similar to
baseline methods (see Appendix C), we use the
AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019),
a linear warm-up schedule for the first 5% of the
training steps, and a weight decay of 1e-2 for both
datasets. We use a batch size of B = 8,Bhard = 8
with a gradient accumulation of 2 when using a
small encoder for both datasets. When using a large
(MIPS) methods and Non-linear (Non-linear) meth
encoder (e.g., E5-large) on the Intellipro dataset,
we keep the same batch size of B = 8, but with
Bhard = 4 and DeepSpeed Zero 2 (Rajbhandari
et al., 2020) with BF16 mixed precision training
due to GPU memory constraints. On the AliYun
dataset, we simply use B = 8,Bhard = 8 without
DeepSpeed as input sequences are much shorter
compared to those from the Intellipro dataset.
We train CONFIT models for 10 epochs and save
the best checkpoint based on validation loss for
testing. On average, CONFIT takes about 1.5 hours
and 4.5 hours to train when using a small encoder
on the Intellipro dataset and the AliYun dataset,
respectively. When using a large encoder (e.g., E5
large), CONFIT takes about 3 hours and 9 hours
to train on the Intellipro dataset and the AliYun
dataset, respectively.
E More Details on Data Augmentation
In Section 3.1, we discussed how CONFIT can in
crease the number of resume-job labels by first cre
ating augmented resumes ˆ
Ri and jobs ˆJi that carry
semantically similar information as Ri and Ji, and
then replicating the labels from Ri and Ji to ˆ
Ri and
ˆ
Ji. Since much information in a resume or a job
post contains formal names such as “Job Title”, we
only paraphrase certain sections. For resumes in
the Intellipro dataset, we paraphrase the “descrip
tion” subsection in the “Experiences” section and
the “description” subsection in the “Projects” sec
tion (see Table A2). For job posts in the Intellipro
dataset, we paraphrase the “Company Description”
section, the “Job Description/Responsibilities” sec
tion, the “Required Qualifications/Skills”, and the
“Preferred Qualifications/Skills” section (see Ta
ble A3). For the AliYun dataset, we paraphrase the
“工作经验”(workexperience) section for resumes,
and the “工作描述” (job description) section for
job posts.
CONFIT performs data augmentation using both
ChatGPT and EDA for 500 resumes and 500 jobs
for each dataset. With only 1000 augmented docu
ments on each dataset, we increased the number of
resume-job labels by 5330 and 9706 for the Intel
lipro dataset and the AliYun dataset, respectively.
F More Details on Runtime Comparison
In Section 4.6, we compared the runtime of various
neural-based methods from Table 3. We catego
rize neural-based methods into two types when
doing inference: Maximum Inner Product Search
ods. MIPS methods compute a matching score
between two dense vectors using inner product,
and can be efficiently implemented using FAISS
(Johnson et al., 2019) to scale to billions of doc
uments. MIPS-based approach includes RawEm
bed and CONFIT. Non-linear methods produce a
matching score by modeling non-linear interactions
between a resume and a job’s (intermediate) repre
sentations. For example, InEXIT first concatenates
the intermediate representations of a resume and a
job, and then passes them into a self-attention layer
and an MLP layer for scoring. Non-linear methods
include MV-CoN, InEXIT, and DPGNN.
All experiments are performed using the test set
from the AliYun dataset on a single A100 80GB
GPU. For MIPS-based methods, we precompute
all the relevant embeddings (excluded from run
time calculation), and record the average runtime
for FAISS to retrieve the top 10 job posts from
a pool of 100, 1000, and 10000 job posts when
given a resume embedding. For non-linear meth
ods, we record the average runtime to perform all
the needed forward passes for each of the 100,
1000, and 10000 resume-job pairs. However, we
do note that the runtime for non-linear methods
can be further optimized by precomputing certain
intermediate representations before passing them
into their respective non-linear scoring layers. We
did not perform this optimization because 1) this is
highly architecture- and method-dependent, and 2)
it still does not scale well when the number of job
posts is large, or when there are multiple resumes
to query.
G More Details on Ablation Studies
Our ablation studies in Section 4.7 also experi
mented with removing neural networks completely,
to decouple our methodology from any particular
choice of neural networks. To achieve this, we first
mimic the batches used during contrastive training
in CONFIT and construct a dataset Dcon which con
tains a positive resume-job pair ⟨R+
i ,J+
i ⟩ along
with l negative resumes and l negative job posts
(see Section 3.2). Then, we treat all negative re
sumes and job posts that have a label of y = 0 when
paired with J+
i and R+
i , respectively. Finally, we
encode all resumes and job posts using TF-IDF, and
train an XGBoost ranker using Dcon. To be compa
rable with CONFIT which uses B = 8,Bhard = 8,
we use l = 16 for each positive resume-job pair,
100 0 100
100
0
100
others
Business Management
Software Engineering
Human Resources
(a)CONFIT
100 0 100
100
0
100
(b)E5-small
100 0 100
100
0
100
(c) text-ada-002
100 0 100
100
0
100
(d)BERT-base
100 0 100
100
0
100
(e)MV-CoN
100 0 100
100
0
100
(f)DPGNN
FigureA1:ResumeembeddingsproducedbyvariousmethodsinTable3withBERT-base-multilingual-cased
asbackboneencoder.Colorsassignedusingeachresume’sdesiredindustry.Top-3mostfrequentindustriesare
color-codedforeasierviewing.BERT-basereferstorawembeddingproducedbyBERT-base-multilingual-cased.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
MV-CoN BERT-base 10.81 10.00 3.34 2.17 58.00 50.00 33.33 5.41 5.15 13.44 12.67 74.25 72.22 68.32
InEXIT BERT-base 12.27 12.98 4.11 3.46 55.55 44.74 35.42 5.25 4.98 13.02 12.30 71.75 66.67 72.18
DPGNN BERT-base 19.64 21.95 17.86 19.60 61.16 52.38 45.83 19.96 24.64 27.23 30.07 50.31 45.24 57.14
Ours+XGBoost TF-IDF 24.04 27.29 15.60 17.23 43.60 37.66 60.42 24.19 28.95 30.29 33.66 52.31 47.51 64.67
TableA4:CONFITwithoutneuralnetworks(denotedasOurs+XGBoost)iscompetitiveagainstmanypriorperson
jobfitmethodswithBERT-baseasabackboneencoder.F1isweightedF1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+and
Rcl+areprecisionandrecallforpositiveclasses.Resultsfornon-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.
Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upisingray.
with14randomnegativesand2hardnegatives.
WedenotethisapproachasOurs+XGboost,and
compareitsperformanceagainstotherperson-job
fit systems inTableA4. Wefindourapproach
isstillcompetitiveagainstthesemethodsthatuse
aBERT-base(Devlinetal.,2019)encoder. This
suggeststhatthecontrastivelearninganddataaug
mentationprocedurefromCONFITiseffectivefor
theperson-jobfittask.
H MoreDetailsonQualitativeAnalysis
FigureA1presents theresumeembeddingspro
ducedbyvariousmethodsinTable3withBERT
base-multilingual-casedasthebackboneencoder
(withtheexceptionofOpenAItext-ada-002,which
isfromTable4).SincemethodssuchasMV-CoN,
InEXIT,andDPGNNdoesnotexplicitlylearna
resumeorajobembedding,weextracttherepresen
tationsfromthelastlayerbeforetheirresume-job
pairscoringlayers(e.g., thefinalMLPlayer in
MV-CoN,ortheself-attentionlayersinInEXIT).
Ingeneral,wefindembeddingsproducedby
MV-CoN,DPGNN,andBERT-basetendtoscatter
“SoftwareEngineering”-relatedresumesacrossthe
entireembeddingspace,whileembeddingspro
ducedbyCONFIT, E5-small, and text-ada-002
has a clearer separation between “Software En
gineering” and other industries such as “Human
Resource”. In Table 3, we similarly find the rank
ing performances of CONFIT, E5-small, and text
ada-002 are better than MV-CoN, DPGNN, and
BERT-base on the Intellipro dataset. Therefore, we
believe Figure A1 qualitatively shows that having
a high-quality embedding space is beneficial for
modeling person-job fit.
CONFIT V2: Improving Resume-Job Matching using Hypothetical Resume
Embedding and Runner-Up Hard-Negative Mining
Xiao Yu*♠ Ruize Xu∗♠ Chengyuan Xue∗♦ Jinzhong Zhang♣ Xu Ma♣ Zhou Yu♠
♠Columbia University ♦University of Toronto ♣Intellipro Group Inc.
{xy2437,zy2461}@columbia.edu
{jinzhong}@intelliprogroup.com
Abstract
A reliable resume-job matching system helps a
company recommend suitable candidates from
arXiv:2502.12361v3  [cs.CL]  2 Mar 2025
a pool of resumes and helps a job seeker find
relevant jobs from a list of job posts. How
ever, since job seekers apply only to a few jobs,
interaction labels in resume-job datasets are
sparse. We introduce CONFIT V2, an improve
ment over CONFIT to tackle this sparsity prob
lem. We propose two techniques to enhance
the encoder’s contrastive training process: aug
menting job data with hypothetical reference
resume generated by a large language model;
and creating high-quality hard negatives from
unlabeled resume/job pairs using a novel hard
negative mining strategy. We evaluate CONFIT
V2 on two real-world datasets and demonstrate
that it outperforms CONFIT and prior methods
(including BM25 and OpenAI text-embedding
003), achieving an average absolute improve
ment of 13.8% in recall and 17.5% in nDCG
across job-ranking and resume-ranking tasks.
Rank J
Rank R
Rank J
Recruiting AliYun
Rank R
Rank J
Rank R
Recruiting AliYun
Model
E5
Jina
Rank J
Rank R
0
20
40
nDCG
Method
Method
ConFit ConFit
ConFit v2 ConFit v2
60
80
Figure 1: Performance comparison between CONFIT
V2 and CONFIT across the AliYun and the Recruiting
dataset. “Rank R” indicates ranking resume, and “Rank
J” indicates ranking job.
et al., 2018) uses hierarchical recurrent neural net
works to process the job and resume content, and
DPGNN(Yangetal., 2022) uses a dual-perspective
graph neural network to model the relationship
between resumes and jobs. Unlike these manual
1 Introduction
Online recruitment platforms like LinkedIn serve
over 990 million users and 65 million businesses,
processing more than 100 million job applications
each month (Iqbal, 2025). As these platforms con
tinue to grow, there is a rising need for efficient
and robust resume-job matching systems. A prac
tical system that reliably identifies suitable candi
dates/jobs from large pools will save considerable
effort for both employers and job seekers.
Since both resume and job posts are often stored
as text data, there has been an increased interest
in using transformer models to model resume-job
fit (or referred to as “person-job fit”). Many prior
works (Zhu et al., 2018; Qin et al., 2018; Bian et al.,
2020; Yang et al., 2022; Shao et al., 2023) focus on
designing complex modeling techniques to model
resume-job matching. For example, APJFNN (Qin
model/feature engineering methods, more recently
Yu et al. (2024b) shows that dense retrieval tech
niques like contrastive learning achieve significant
improvements without relying on any complex de
signs. By introducing dense retrieval methods to
resume-job matching, CONFIT (Yu et al., 2024b)
presented a simple yet effective method to rank
thousands of resumes/jobs in milliseconds, by com
bining training neural encoders such as E5 (Wang
et al., 2022) with inner-product search algorithms
such as FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019).
We propose CONFIT V2, an enhanced baseline
that achieves an average absolute improvement
of 13.8% in recall and 17.5% in nDCG on rank
ing resumes and jobs compared to CONFIT (see
Figure 1). We introduce two key improvements
to enhance the neural encoder’s training process:
1) Hypothetical Resume Embedding (HYRE) that
leverages a large language model (LLM) to gener
ate a hypothetical resume and augment the job post
*denotes equal contribution
(see Figure 2), providing implicit details to reduce
the burden on encoder training; and 2) Runner
Up Mining (RUM) that mines a large set of high
quality hard negatives to help the encoder better
discern positive with near-positive samples. We
train CONFIT V2 using HYRE and RUM on two
real-world datasets, and show that CONFIT V2
achieves new state-of-the-art performance on rank
ing resumes and jobs, outperforming CONFIT and
other prior work (including BM25 and OpenAI
text-embedding-003-large). We will open-source
our code and data (under license agreements) to
provide a strong baseline for future research in em
powering resume-job matching systems with dense
retrieval techniques.
2 Background
A resume-job matching (or often called person
job fit) system models the compatibility between a
resume R and a job post J, allowing the systems
to recommend the most suitable candidates for a
given job, or suggest the most relevant jobs for a
given candidate (Bian et al., 2020; Yang et al., 2022;
Shao et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2024b). Since resumes
and job posts are often stored as text data, many
prior works consider using neural networks (e.g.,
encoders) to quantify the compatibility between
resumes and jobs:
score(R,J) = fθ(R,J) → R,
where fθ could be directly modeled by a neural
network (Zhu et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2022; Shao
et al., 2023), or by computing inner product/cosine
similarity (Yu et al., 2024b) between a resume em
bedding fθ(R) and a job embedding fθ(J).
Despite the rapid growth of online recruitment
platforms and the increasing availability of job
posts and resume data, there are very few inter
action labels between any resumes and job posts
(Bian et al., 2020; Yu et al., 2024b). This is because
a candidate usually applies to only a few positions,
and a job interviewer often reviews only a few re
sumes for a given job post. Often, the resulting
dataset D = {Ri,Ji,yi} has size ∣D∣ ≪ nR ×nJ,
where nR and nJ are the total number of resumes
and jobs respectively, and yi ∈ {0,1} is a binary
signal representing whether a resume Ri is short
listed for a job Ji. For example, in both the Re
cruiting and AliYun datasets (Section 4.1) used in
this work, less than 0.05% of the total possible
(resume, job) pairs are annotated. This label spar
sity poses challenges in: 1) crafting high-quality
training data/hard negatives for training a neural
encoder fθ; and 2) learning a representation space
that generalizes well across diverse resumes and
job posts.
3 Approach
We propose CONFIT V2, a simple and general
purpose approach that improves CONFIT (Yu et al.,
2024b) to model resume-job compatibility. Similar
to CONFIT, we use an encoder to produce an em
bedding of a given resume or job post, and model
the matching score between an ⟨R,J⟩ pair as the
cosine similarity of their representations. Unlike
CONFIT, CONFIT V2 uses a simpler encoder ar
chitecture, and substantially improves ranking per
formance by using 1) hypothetical reference re
sume generated by an LLM to help improve the en
coder’s job data understanding; and 2) a novel hard
negative mining method to enhance encoder con
trastive learning. We provide a high-level overview
of CONFIT V2 during inference in Figure 2. We
detail each modification below.
3.1 Encoder Architecture
Many prior works on resume-job matching employ
complex neural architectures to encode human
designed matching heuristics (Zhu et al., 2018;
Yang et al., 2022). For example, Shao et al. (2023);
Yu et al. (2024b) uses a hierarchical attention mech
anism to model interactions between each section
(e.g., Education, Experience, etc.) of a resume
and a job post. However, in practice, these modi
fications often rely on specific domain knowledge
and require additional structural constraints on re
sume/job data, restricting their generalizability.
Different from these methods, we treat the re
sume/job post as a single sequence of text, and
directly use a transformer-based encoder to pro
duce the embedding of the entire document. This
allows the encoder model itself to learn the most
relevant features from the data, instead of relying
on human-designed heuristics. We illustrate this
difference in Figure A1. In practice, we find this
simpler design is more effective and robust across
different datasets and backbones (Section 4.6). We
denote this simplified encoder as CONFIT∗.
3.2 HYPOTHETICAL RESUME EMBEDDING
In traditional dense passage retrieval tasks, one
challenge is the discrepancy between query and
passage formats and content (Gao et al., 2022;
ConFit v2
job title: SWE
job type: Intern
requirements: ...
job title: HR
job type: Full Time
requirements: ...
职位：产品负责⼈
职位类型: 全职
职责：....
GPT-4o-mini
education: M.S.
skills: C; C++; ...
experiences: SWE Intern ...
education: B.S.
skills: Communication ...
experiences: HR at ...
教育: 硕⼠;
技能: ...;
相关经验: 产品负责⼈...
Encoder
education: Masters; ...
skills: python; C++; ...
experiences: SWE Intern...
education: Bachelor; ...
skills: Negotiation ...
experiences: HR ...
real job post generated resume real resume
教育: 硕⼠; ...
技能: ; ...
相关经验: 技术负责⼈...
Figure 2: CONFIT V2 inference. Given a job post, we first use an LLM to generate a hypothetical reference resume
given the job post, and then outputs a job embedding using the concatenation of the generated resume and the job
post. Given a resume, CONFIT V2 outputs a resume embedding directly using our trained encoder model. Finally,
cosine similarity is used to compute the compatibility between the input resume and job post.
Zhou et al., 2024). To address this, Gao et al.
(2022) shows that zero-shot passage ranking im
proves significantly with Hypothetical Document
Embeddings (HyDe), where an LLM generates a
hypothetical passage from a query, and the encoder
ranks actual passages based on their cosine similar
ity to the hypothetical one. We observe a similar
discrepancy in resume-job matching, and find a sub
stantial performance gain when high-quality (real)
resumes are used in place of jobs during ranking.
See Appendix B for more details.
Given a dataset of accepted/rejected resume-job
pairs, one extension to systems like HyDe is to fine
tune an LLM such as LLaMA-3 (Grattafiori et al.,
2024) or Qwen-2.5 (Team, 2024) using SFT and
DPO(Rafailov et al., 2024). However, in our prior
study, we find fine-tuning these models yields infe
rior results (see Appendix B.4) to few-shot prompt
ing powerful closed-source models such as GPT-4o
mini (OpenAI, 2024a). We believe this is because
accepting a resume can be subjective, making it
hard for an LLM to learn an “ideal candidate” from
the dataset. We thus construct hypothetical refer
ences by augmenting the existing job posts. Specif
ically, we 1) fix N accepted resume-job pairs from
the training set as few-shot examples; 2) prompt
GPT-4o-mini to generate a reference resume given
a job post; and 3) concatenate the generated resume
with the real job post. We repeat this for all jobs
used during training and testing.
3.3 RUNNER-UP MINING
To accurately model resume-job compatibility, the
encoder needs to distinguish between matching
and near-matching resume-job pairs. CONFIT (Yu
et al., 2024b) achieves state-of-the-art performance
by training the encoder with contrastive loss, where
given a job the model uses 1) random resumes as
in-batch negatives and 2) rejected resumes as hard
negatives, and vice versa for resumes. However,
due to label scarcity (Section 2), the quantity of
rejected resumes/hard negatives is highly limited.
We propose RUNNER-UP MINING (RUM), a
new hard-negative mining method that selects
“runner-up” resume-job pairs as hard negatives
based on compatibility scores from an encoder
model. In dense text retrieval tasks, many prior
hard-negative mining methods that treat unlabeled
or incorrect top-k results (e.g., using BM25) as
hard negatives (Xiong et al., 2021; Zhao et al.,
2024). However, in resume-job matching, we find
many of these top-k results are positive pairs that
are unlabeled simply because the candidate did
not apply to the job1. To avoid these top-k false
negatives, we instead take “runner-up” (e.g., top
3%-4%) samples based on the cosine similarity
scores, and use them as hard negatives for training.
Specifically, RUM begins by computing the co
sine similarity scores between all possible resume
job pairs using an encoder model fµ (e.g., CON
FIT∗). Then, we rank these pairs by similarity
score and randomly sample resumes and jobs from
the top percentile ranges (e.g., top 3%-4%) as chal
lenging hard negatives. Finally, during contrastive
training, we replace hard negatives used in CON
FIT (i.e., rejected resumes/jobs) with these hard
negatives mined by RUM.
3.4 CONFIT V2
We summarize our contribution in CONFIT V2.
First, we simplified the encoder architecture used
1For example, he/she may be overqualified or may have
already accepted another offer.
provided the only publicly available person-job fit
by CONFIT, so that complex dynamics between
different resumes and job posts are learned directly
from the data (i.e., CONFIT∗, Section 3.1). Then,
we improve the encoder training process by using
1) HYRE to generate pivot hypothetical resumes to
simplify the job post representation space during
both training and testing; and 2) RUM to mine
high-quality hard negatives for more effective con
trastive training. We illustrate CONFIT V2’s infer
ence process in Figure 2. Given a job post, CONFIT
V2 converts it into an embedding by first using an
LLM to generate a hypothetical resume, and then
using the encoder to produce a job embedding us
ing the concatenation of the generated resume and
the original job post. Given a resume, CONFIT V2
directly uses the encoder to produce the resume
embedding. The compatibility score between a
resume and a job is then computed as the cosine
similarity between their embeddings.
To train CONFIT V2 encoder, we use HYRE to
augment all job posts with generated reference re
sumes (Section 3.2), and replace them with original
job posts for later training and testing. Then, we
use RUM to mine hard-negative resumes and (aug
mented) jobs (Section 3.3). Finally, we train the
simplified CONFIT∗ using the modified contrastive
learning loss L from Yu et al. (2024b):
L =LR+LJ
LR =−log
LJ =−log
efθ(R+
i,J+
i)
efθ(R+
i ,J+
i ) + ∑l
j=1 efθ(R+
i ,J−
i,j)
efθ(R+
i,J+
i)
efθ(R+
i ,J+
i ) + ∑l
j=1 efθ(R−
i,j,J+
i )
(1)
where LR and LJ is the resume/job contrastive loss,
respectively; (R+,J+) denotes accepted resume
job pairs; (R−,J+) or (R+,J−) denote negative
resume-job pairs including both in-batch negatives
and hard negatives; and fθ is cosine similarity after
embedding the resume-job pairs.
4 Experiments
Weevaluate CONFIT V2 on two real-world person
job fit datasets, and measure its performance on
ranking resumes and ranking jobs.
4.1 Dataset and Preprocessing
AliYun Dataset To our knowledge, the 2019 Al
ibaba job-resume intelligent matching competition2
dataset. All resume and job posts were desensitized
and were processed into a collection of text fields,
such as “Education” and “Work Experiences” for
a resume (see Appendix D for more details). All
resumes and jobs are in Chinese.
Recruiting Dataset The resumes and job posts
are provided by a hiring solution company. To pro
tect the privacy of candidates, all records have been
anonymized by removing sensitive identity infor
mation (see Appendix D). For each resume-job pair,
we record whether the candidate is accepted (y = 1)
or rejected (y = 0) for an interview. Similar to the
AliYun dataset, all resumes and jobs were available
as a collection of sections/fields. Both English and
Chinese resumes and jobs are included.
4.2 Implementation Details
We follow CONFIT (Yu et al., 2024b) and exper
iment with two encoder architectures. We con
sider E5-base (Wang et al., 2022), and Jina-v2-base.
(Mohr et al., 2024). Both encoders are trained on
large-scale Chinese-English bilingual text data, and
were amongst the best embedding models accord
ing to benchmarks such as MTEB (Muennighoff
et al., 2022) at the time of the project. For HYRE,
we use GPT-4o-mini as the LLM for generating
hypothetical resumes due to its cost-effectiveness.
We provide the prompts used in Appendix B.1. We
then train CONFIT∗ with HYRE using contrastive
learning (without hard negatives), and use to mine
hard negatives with RUM. For RUM, we use the
top 3%-4%percentile to pick hard-negatvies across
all experiments. Finally, we train CONFIT∗ again,
using 1) HYRE augmented job data; and 2) RUM
mined hard negatives. We use Eq (1) with a batch
size of 4 and 2 hard negatives per batch, and a
learning rate of 1e-5. This is the final encoder used
for CONFIT V2. We run all experiments using one
A100 80GB GPU. To speed up cosine similarity
computation across a large pool of resumes and
jobs, we use FAISS (Johnson et al., 2019) through
out all experiments.
4.3 Baselines
We compare CONFIT V2 against both recent best
person-job fit systems and strong baselines from
information retrieval systems.
Prior person-job fit systems include MV-CoN
(Bian et al., 2020), InEXIT (Shao et al., 2023),
2https://tianchi.aliyun.com/competition/entrance/231728
and ConFit (Yu et al., 2024b) and more (Qin et al.,
RecruitingDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob RankResume RankJob
Method Encoder Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10 Recall@10 nDCG@10 Recall@10 nDCG@10
RawEmbed. E5-base 46.48 22.87 43.58 25.63 49.52 29.66 36.24 27.19
text-embedding-3-large 75.49 40.28 79.67 56.73 68.74 46.19 48.52 38.36
BM25- 41.73 17.36 38.92 24.14 63.18 40.56 44.83 31.18
MV-CoN E5-base 10.29 7.46 24.75 8.29 11.01 6.47 14.63 8.29
InEXIT E5-base 12.32 6.09 19.33 4.16 10.54 5.15 9.82 6.11
CONFIT E5-base 65.13 28.74 68.42 40.85 88.08 70.39 61.58 43.45
CONFITV2(ours) E5-base 84.44 48.40 88.67 66.61 96.18 82.20 82.11 67.96
Table1:ComparingrankingperformanceofvariousapproacheswithE5-baseasbackboneencoder.Resultsfor
non-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold.
RecruitingDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob RankResume RankJob
Method Encoder Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10 Recall@10 nDCG@10 Recall@10 nDCG@10
RawEmbed. Jina-v2-base 54.73 26.34 44.38 27.64 57.20 36.72 43.27 32.29
text-embedding-3-large 75.49 40.28 79.67 56.73 68.74 46.19 48.52 38.36
BM25- 41.73 17.36 38.92 24.14 63.18 40.56 44.83 31.18
MV-CoN Jina-v2-base 10.50 4.06 19.83 5.72 9.11 4.72 13.50 9.99
InEXIT Jina-v2-base 8.83 4.01 6.50 3.05 11.36 4.83 13.49 10.46
CONFIT Jina-v2-base 71.28 34.79 76.50 52.57 87.81 65.06 72.39 56.12
CONFITV2(ours) Jina-v2-base 86.13 51.90 94.25 73.32 97.07 83.11 80.49 68.02
Table2:ComparingrankingperformanceofvariousapproacheswithJina-v2-baseasbackboneencoder.Resultsfor
non-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold.
2018;Zhuetal.,2018;Yangetal.,2022).MV-CoN
considersaco-teachingnetwork(Hanetal.,2018)
tolearnfromsparse,noisyperson-jobfitdata,and
InEXITuseshierarchicalattentiontomodelinter
actionsbetweenthetextfieldsofaresume-jobpair.
CONFITfocusesondenseretrievaltechniques,and
usescontrastivelearningandLLM-baseddataaug
mentationtotrainanencoder.Otheroldermethods
suchasAPJFNN(Qinetal.,2018),PJFNN(Zhu
etal.,2018),andDPGNN(Yangetal.,2022)are
omittedsince theyarealreadyoutperformedby
thesemorerecentmethods.
Wealsocompareagainstmethodsfrominfor
mationretrievalsystemssuchas:BM25(Robert
sonandZaragoza,2009;Trotmanetal.,2014)and
RawEmbed. BM25isastrongbaselineusedfor
manytextrankingtasks(Thakuretal.,2021;Ka
mallooetal.,2023),andRawEmbedisbasedon
denseretrievalmethods(Karpukhinetal.,2020;
Johnsonetal.,2019)thatdirectlyusesapre-trained
encoder toproducedenseembeddingsfor inner
productscoring.SinceRawEmbeddoesnotneed
training,weconsiderbothopen-sourceencoders
suchasE5(Wangetal.,2022)andJina-v2(Mohr
etal.,2024)andcommercialmodelssuchasOpe
nAI’stext-embedding-003-large(OpenAI,2024b).
4.4 MainResults
Table1summarizesCONFITV2’sperformance
incomparisontootherbaselinesontheRecruit
46 48 50 52 54
nDCG@100
+RUM(t=3)
+RUM(t=2)
+RUM(t=1)
ConFit*
 51.7
 52.1
 51.0
 48.2
Figure3: IterativeRUMusingJina-v2-baseasencoder
model.“RUM(t=N)”indicatesapplyingRUMNtimes.
ingandAliYundatasetswhenE5-baseisusedas
theencoder.Wereport tworankingmetrics,Re
call@KandnDCG@K.Ingeneral,CONFITshows
substantialimprovementovermanypriormethods,
suchasMV-CoN, InEXIT,andBM25. CONFIT
V2furtherimprovesCONFITby17.1%inrecall
and20.4%innDCGscoreonaverage,outperform
ingallotherbaselines, includingOpenAI’s text
embedding-003-large,onbothdatasets.
Table2summarizeseachmethod’sperformance
whenadifferentencoder (Jina-v2-base) isused.
Similar toTable1, CONFIT shows impressive
performancecomparedtomanybaselines,but is
exceededbyOpenAI’stext-embedding-003-large.
However,CONFITV2outperformsallotherbase
lines, byup to10.6%in recall and14.5%in
nDCGscoreforrankingresumesandjobsonboth
datasets3.Webelievetheseresultsunderscorethe
3Webelievethisisdueto,despiteJina-v2’srecency,Gün
theretal.(2023)findE5tobemorerobustforretrievaltasks.
RecruitingDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob RankResume RankJob
Method Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10 Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10
CONFIT 71.28 34.79 76.50 52.57 87.81 65.06 72.39 56.12
CONFIT∗ 82.53 48.17 85.58 64.91 94.90 78.40 78.70 65.45
+HYRE 85.28 49.50 90.25 70.22 96.62 81.99 81.16 67.63
+RUM 86.13 51.90 94.25 73.32 97.07 83.11 80.49 68.02
Table3:CONFITV2ablationstudies.“CONFIT∗”refersusingasimplifiedencoderarchitecture.CONFITV2trains
CONFIT∗withRUMandHYRE.WeuseJina-v2-baseastheencoderduetoitsbetterperformance.
6.7% 16.7%
33.3%
43.3%
potentially suitable
unsuitable
less competent
out-of-scope
Figure4: CONFITV2erroranalysis. Wefind43%
oftheerrorsmadeareduetoreasonsnot identifiable
usingresume/jobdocumentsalone,and33%duetoa
candidate’sresumesatisfyingallthejobrequirements
butislesscompetentthanothercompetingcandidates
effectivenessofourmethodacrossdifferent en
codersanddatasets.
4.5 IterativeRUM
SinceRUMonlyrequiresanencodermodel to
minehardnegatives,wealsoexperimentwithus
ingRUMiterativelytoimprovethemodel’sperfor
mance.Foreachiteration,we1)usetheencoder
trainedfromtheprevious iterationtominehard
negativesusingRUM;and2)trainthebackbone
encoderagainusingthenewlyacquiredhardnega
tives4.Throughoutalliterations,wekeepallhyper
parametersthesameasinSection4.2.Wefocuson
therankingresumetaskintheRecruitingdataset
sinceitisthemostchallenging.
Wepresent theresultsinFigure3. Ingeneral,
wefindthattrainingwithmorethanoneiteration
(t>1)improvesresumerankingperformancecom
paredtoasingleiteration(t=1).However,asthe
numberof iterationsincreases, improvementbe
ginstodrop.Webelievethisissimilar tomany
model self-improvement research(Huanget al.,
4Wealsoexperimentedwithcontinuously training the
modelfromthepreviousiteration,butfoundthatitcanmore
easilyleadtooverfitting.
2023;Yuetal.,2024a).Whilemodel-createddata
oftenhelpsimproveperformance,thesedataalso
containsnoisesthatcancompoundovermultiple
iterations.Webelievetechniquessuchasmodel
ensembles(Zhangetal.,2011;deSouzaP.Moreira
etal.,2024)couldhelpmitigatethisissue,andwe
leavethisforfuturework.
4.6 AblationStudies
Table3presentsourablationstudiesforeachcom
ponentofCONFITV2. First,weconsideronly
simplifyingtheencoderarchitecture(denotedas
ConFit∗), anduserejectedresumes/jobsashard
negativesusedbyCONFIT(Yuetal.,2024b).We
findthatthissimplificationsignificantlyimproves
rankingperformance. Webelievethis isdueto
thestrongperformanceofrecentembeddingmod
els,whichcaneffectivelylearncomplexinterac
tionsbetweenresumesandjobpostsdirectlyfrom
data. Next,weuseHYREtogeneratereference
resumes,augment jobposts,andtrainCONFIT∗
ontheaugmenteddata(denotedas+HYRE).We
findthis toimprove2.9%absoluteinrecalland
3.1%nDCGscoresonaverage. Finally,weuse
RUMtominehardresume/(augmented)jobneg
atives(denotedas+RUM),andreplacethemwith
therejectedresume/jobsusedbyCONFIT. InTa
ble3,wefindthatRUMfurtherimprovedby,on
average,1.2%absoluteinrecallscores,and1.8%
absoluteinnDCGacrossbothdatasets.Wefind
thatallcomponentsareimportantforCONFITV2.
For other results, such as comparingRUM
againstmethodsthatuseBM25,withdifferentper
centilerangesother thanthetop3%-4%aswell
astestingRUMagainsthardnegativesminedby
BM25,pleaserefertoAppendixC.
5 Analysis
Inthissection,weprovidebothqualitativeand
quantitativeanalysison the rankingoutput pro
ducedbyCONFITV2.Wemainlyfocusonthe
Method
Gender Male(%) Female(%)
CONFIT∗
CONFIT∗
CONFIT∗ + RUM
CONFIT∗ + RUM
✗
✓
✗
✓
70.43
75.63
66.67
69.72
29.57
24.37
33.33
30.28
Table 4: Gender distribution in the top-10 ranked re
sume, averaged across all test job postings. “Gender”
indicates whether gender information is used during
training. “Male/Female” indicates the proportion of the
top-10 resume that belongs to a male/female candidate.
Recruiting dataset as it is more challenging.
5.1 Error Analysis
To analyze the errors made by CONFIT V2, we
manually inspect 30 negative resume-job pairs
from the ranking tasks that are incorrectly ranked at
top 5% and are before at least one positive pair. For
each incorrectly ranked pair, we compare against
other positive resume-job pairs from the dataset,
and categorize the errors following the criteria from
Yu et al. (2024b): unsuitable, where some require
ments in the job post are not satisfied by the re
sume; less competent, where a resume satisfies
all job requirements, but many competing candi
dates have a higher degree/more experience; out
of-scope, where a resume satisfies all requirements,
appears competitive compared to other candidates,
but is still rejected due to other (e.g., subjective)
reasons not presented in our resume/job data them
selves; and potentially suitable, where a resume
from the ranking tasks satisfied the requirements
and seemed competent, but had no label in the orig
inal dataset.
We present our analysis in Figure 4. We find a
significant portion of the errors are out-of-scope,
where it is hard to determine the reason for rejec
tion based on information in the resume/job data
alone. The next most frequent error is less com
petent, which is understandable since CONFIT V2
produces a compatibility score for a resume-job
pair independent of other candidates. Lastly, we
also find that 16.7% of the errors are unsuitable,
with resumes not fulfilling certain requirements
such as “Backend SWEs with Ruby experience”.
We believe unsuitable errors can be mitigated by
combining CONFIT V2 with keyword-based ap
proaches (e.g., BM25 or human-designed rules).
We leave this for future work.
Legal
Healthcare
Business Services
Retail
Information Tech.
Male
Female
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Figure 5: Gender distribution in different industries. We
picked five industries to illustrate trend. In entire dataset,
72% of the candidates are male, and 28% are female.
5.2 Bias Analysis
CONFIT V2 relies on pretrained encoders such as
E5 and Jina-v2 (Devlin et al., 2019; Wang et al.,
2022), and it is well-known that many powerful en
coders can contain biases (Brunet et al., 2019; May
et al., 2019; Jentzsch and Turan, 2022; Caliskan
et al., 2022) such as gender, age, demographics, etc.
As a case study, we examine whether ranking out
puts from CONFIT V2 contain gender bias. For this
experiment, we add gender information5 back to
our desensitized resumes, and compare 1) whether
training on gender-included data increases gender
disparities in the ranking output; and 2) whether
RUM has any effect on gender bias.
We present our analysis in Table 4. Across all
experiments, we find adding gender information
back into the training data increases gender dis
parities in the ranking output. “CONFIT∗” trained
with gender information widened the gender gap in
the ranking output by ∼10% compared to training
without gender, and “CONFIT∗+RUM” widened
the gap by ∼6%. In general, we believe one major
cause of this disparity is the inherent biases in the
datasets. In Figure 5, we find gender distributions
are uneven across different industries, and that over
all, 72% of the (accepted or rejected) resumes used
during training are from male candidates, and only
28% are from female candidates.
In Table 4, we also find that using RUM helps
reduce gender disparities compared to CONFIT∗
alone. We believe this indicates RUM provided
challenging hard negatives that do not always rely
on gender information, hence reducing gender dis
parity during training. In general, we advise re
searchers and practitioners to be cautious when
using CONFIT V2, and to use explicit de-biasing
techniques (Bolukbasi et al., 2016; Cheng et al.,
2021; Gaci et al., 2022; Guo et al., 2022) in ad
5Since gender information is voluntarily submitted by the
candidates, this affects around 15% of all resumes.
tasks (Nguyen et al., 2016; Thakur et al., 2021;
dition to data de-sensitization used in this work.
We do not condone the use of CONFIT V2 for any
ethically unjust purposes.
6 Related Work
Person-job fit systems Early person-job fit sys
tems that use neural networks typically focus on
architecture designs. These methods include Qin
et al. (2018); Zhu et al. (2018); Rezaeipourfarsangi
and Milios (2023); Jiang et al. (2020); Mhatre
et al. (2023), which explores architectures such
as RNN, LSTM (Staudemeyer and Morris, 2019)
and CNN (O’Shea and Nash, 2015). However,
these are significantly outperformed by more recent
transformer-based methods such as Maheshwary
and Misra (2018); Rezaeipourfarsangi and Milios
(2023); Bian et al. (2019); Zhang et al. (2023),
which focuses on small architecture or loss mod
ifications. For example, MV-CoN (Bian et al.,
2020) uses a co-teaching network (Malach and
Shalev-Shwartz, 2018) to perform gradient updates
based on model’s confidence to data noises; In
EXIT (Shao et al., 2023), which uses hierarchical
attention to model resume-job interactions; and
DPGNN(Yang et al., 2022), which uses a graph
based approach with a novel BPR loss to optimize
for resume/job ranking. However, these methods
tend to focus on task-specific modifications, such
as assuming no unseen resumes/jobs at test time or
assuming access to internal data such as whether
the recruiter sent private messages to the job ap
plicant. More recently, CONFIT (Yu et al., 2024b)
focuses on applying dense retrieval techniques to
person-job fit. Using contrastive learning with en
coders such as E5 (Wang et al., 2022), Yu et al.
(2024b) demonstrates its performance and flexi
bility by achieving the best scores in almost all
ranking and classification tasks across two differ
ent person-job fit datasets. In this work, we pro
pose HYRE and RUM to further enhance CONFIT
V2, achieving an average absolute improvement
of 13.8% in recall and 17.5% in nDCG across job
ranking and resume-ranking tasks in two resume
job benchmarks.
Dense retrieval techniques CONFIT V2 benefits
from dense retrieval techniques such as contrastive
learning (Chen et al., 2020; Radford et al., 2021)
and hard-negative mining. Popular methods in text
retrieval include BM25 (Robertson and Zaragoza,
2009; Trotman et al., 2014), a keyword-based ap
proach used as the baseline in many text ranking
Muennighoff et al., 2022), and dense retrieval meth
ods such as Karpukhin et al. (2020); Izacard et al.
(2021); Wang et al. (2022); Günther et al. (2023),
which uses contrastive learning with an encoder to
obtain high-quality passage embeddings, and typi
cally performs top-k search based on inner product.
To further improve retrieval results, researchers
considered methods such as query/document ex
pansions (Carpineto and Romano, 2012) and hard
negative mining (Robinson et al., 2021). Recent
query/document expansion approaches include
HyDE (Gao et al., 2022) and HyQE (Zhou et al.,
2024), which prompts an LLM to augment the orig
inal query or the passage to retrieve and is typically
used without finetuning (the LLM or the encoder
model). Common hard-negative mining strategies
often use BM25 to select top-k unlabeled/incorrect
samples as hard negatives (Karpukhin et al., 2020;
Zhao et al., 2024; Nguyen et al., 2023). Other
methods include: ANCE(Xiong et al., 2021) which
samples negatives from the top retrieved documents
asynchronously during training; SimANS (Zhou
et al., 2022) which samples hard negatives using
a manually designed probability distribution; and
more (Zhan et al., 2021; Li et al., 2024). CON
FIT (Yu et al., 2024b) presents the first successful
attempt to use contrastive learning for person-job
fit. We extend CONFIT and adapt recent dense re
trieval techniques to person-job fit by 1) sampling
hard-negative resumes/jobs from a “runner-up” per
centile ranges to mitigate selecting false-negatives;
and 2) few-shot prompting an LLM to augment a
job posted used for later encoder training.
7 Conclusion
We propose CONFIT V2, an improvement of CON
FIT to model person-job fit. Similar to CONFIT,
we model person-job fit using dense retrieval tech
niques such as contrastive learning. Unlike CON
FIT, we first simplified the encoder architecture,
and improved encoder training using 1) hypotheti
cal reference resume generated by an LLM to aug
ment a job post; and 2) a new hard-negative min
ing strategy that selects “runner-up” resume-job
pairs to avoid false negatives used for encoder train
ing. We evaluate CONFIT V2 on two real-world
datasets, and demonstrate that it outperforms CON
FIT and prior methods, achieving an average abso
lute improvement of 13.8% in recall and 17.5% in
nDCG across both ranking resume and ranking job
work, we have followed best practices from prior
tasks. We believe our work lays a strong foundation
for future resume-job matching systems to leverage
the latest advancements in dense text retrieval.
8 Limitations
Data Sensitivity To our knowledge, there is no
standardized, public person-job fit dataset6 that
can be used to compare performances of existing
systems (Zhu et al., 2018; Qin et al., 2018; Bian
et al., 2020; Yang et al., 2022; Shao et al., 2023).
This is due to the highly sensitive nature of resume
and job post content, making large-scale person
job fit datasets largely proprietary. We follow Yu
et al. (2024b) and provide the best effort to make
CONFIT V2 reproducible and extensible for fu
ture work. We will open-source implementations
of CONFIT V2, related baselines, data processing
scripts, and dummy train/valid/test data files that
can be used to test drive our system end-to-end.
We will also privately release our model weights
and full datasets to researchers under appropriate
license agreements, aiming to make future research
in person-job fit more accessible.
Local HYRE During HYRE,weuseacommer
cial LLM such as GPT-4o-mini to generate hypo
thetical reference resumes to augment our job data
for retrieval. Ideally, one would prefer using an
in-house, local model to better retrain data privacy
and optimize for inference speed. However, in our
prior study, we find fine-tuning open-source LLMs
(up to 32B in size) for this task to be challeng
ing, due to the scarce and subjective nature of the
person-job fit labels (Appendix B.4). We believe
designing data/training algorithms tailored for this
task could benefit person-job fit systems such as
CONFIT V2, which we leave for future work.
9 Ethical Considerations
CONFIT V2 uses and trains pretrained encoders
such as E5 (Wang et al., 2022) and Jina-v2 (Gün
ther et al., 2023), and it is well-known that these
models contain biases including but not limited
to gender, race, demographics, and more (Brunet
et al., 2019; May et al., 2019; Jentzsch and Turan,
2022; Caliskan et al., 2022). For practical person
job fit systems, we believe it is crucial to ensure
that they do not exhibit these biases, such as pre
ferring a certain gender for certain jobs. In this
6The AliYun dataset used in this work is no longer publicly
available as of 09-11-2023.
work (Yang et al., 2022; Yu et al., 2024b) to remove
sensitive information (e.g., gender) from our data.
However, our bias analysis (Section 5.2) reveals
that gender disparities in the trained model could
stem from imbalances in the dataset. We do not
condone using CONFIT V2 for real-world applica
tions without using de-biasing techniques such as
Bolukbasi et al. (2016); Cheng et al. (2021); Gaci
et al. (2022); Guo et al. (2022); Schick et al. (2021),
and in general, we do not condone the use of CON
FIT V2 for any morally unjust purposes. To our
knowledge, there is little work on investigating or
mitigating biases in existing person-job fit systems,
and we believe this is a crucial direction for future
person-job research.
References
Shuqing Bian, Xu Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou,
Yupeng Hou, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2020. Learning to match jobs with resumes
from sparse interaction data using multi-view co
teaching network. Preprint, arXiv:2009.13299.
Shuqing Bian, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yang Song, Tao Zhang,
and Ji-Rong Wen. 2019. Domain adaptation for
person-job fit with transferable deep global match
network. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu
ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages
4810–4820, HongKong, China.Association for Com
putational Linguistics.
Tolga Bolukbasi, Kai-Wei Chang, James Zou,
Venkatesh Saligrama, and Adam Kalai. 2016. Man
is to computer programmer as woman is to home
maker? debiasing word embeddings. Preprint,
arXiv:1607.06520.
Marc-Etienne Brunet, Colleen Alkalay-Houlihan, Ash
ton Anderson, and Richard Zemel. 2019. Under
standing the origins of bias in word embeddings. In
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, pages 803–811. PMLR.
Aylin Caliskan, Pimparkar Parth Ajay, Tessa
Charlesworth, Robert Wolfe, and Mahzarin R.
Banaji. 2022. Gender bias in word embeddings: A
comprehensive analysis of frequency, syntax, and
semantics. In Proceedings of the 2022 AAAI/ACM
Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society, AIES ’22.
ACM.
Claudio Carpineto and Giovanni Romano. 2012. A
survey of automatic query expansion in information
retrieval. ACM Comput. Surv., 44(1).
Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and
Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan
Geoffrey Hinton. 2020. A simple framework for con
trastive learning of visual representations. Preprint,
arXiv:2002.05709.
Pengyu Cheng, Weituo Hao, Siyang Yuan, Shijing Si,
and Lawrence Carin. 2021. Fairfil: Contrastive neu
ral debiasing method for pretrained text encoders.
Preprint, arXiv:2103.06413.
Gabriel de Souza P. Moreira, Radek Osmulski, Mengyao
Xu, Ronay Ak, Benedikt Schifferer, and Even
Oldridge. 2024. Nv-retriever: Improving text em
bedding models with effective hard-negative mining.
Preprint, arXiv:2407.15831.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understand
ing. Preprint, arXiv:1810.04805.
Yacine Gaci, Boualem Benatallah, Fabio Casati, and
Khalid Benabdeslem. 2022. Debiasing pretrained
text encoders by paying attention to paying attention.
In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empiri
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
9582–9602, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Luyu Gao, Xueguang Ma, Jimmy Lin, and Jamie Callan.
2022. Precise zero-shot dense retrieval without rele
vance labels. Preprint, arXiv:2212.10496.
Aaron Grattafiori, Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri,
Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad Al
Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schel
ten, Alex Vaughan, Amy Yang, Angela Fan, Anirudh
Goyal, Anthony Hartshorn, Aobo Yang, Archi Mi
tra, Archie Sravankumar, Artem Korenev, Arthur
Hinsvark, Arun Rao, Aston Zhang, Aurelien Ro
driguez, Austen Gregerson, Ava Spataru, Baptiste
Roziere, Bethany Biron, Binh Tang, and et al.
2024. The llama 3 herd of models. Preprint,
arXiv:2407.21783.
Yue Guo, Yi Yang, and Ahmed Abbasi. 2022. Auto
debias: Debiasing masked language models with
automated biased prompts. In Proceedings of the
60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu
tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
1012–1023, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Michael Günther, Jackmin Ong, Isabelle Mohr, Alaed
dine Abdessalem, Tanguy Abel, Mohammad Kalim
Akram, Susana Guzman, Georgios Mastrapas, Saba
Sturua, Bo Wang, Maximilian Werk, Nan Wang, and
Han Xiao. 2023. Jina embeddings 2: 8192-token
general-purpose text embeddings for long documents.
Preprint, arXiv:2310.19923.
Bo Han, Quanming Yao, Xingrui Yu, Gang Niu, Miao
Xu, Weihua Hu, Ivor Tsang, and Masashi Sugiyama.
2018. Co-teaching: Robust training of deep neu
ral networks with extremely noisy labels. Preprint,
arXiv:1804.06872.
Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and
Weizhu Chen. 2022. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of
large language models. In International Conference
on Learning Representations.
Jiaxin Huang, Shixiang Gu, Le Hou, Yuexin Wu, Xuezhi
Wang, Hongkun Yu, and Jiawei Han. 2023. Large
language models can self-improve. In Proceedings
of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat
ural Language Processing, pages 1051–1068, Singa
pore. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Mansoor Iqbal. 2025. LinkedIn usage and revenue
statistics (2023). online. Accessed: 2025-02-02.
Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Se
bastian Riedel, Piotr Bojanowski, Armand Joulin,
and Edouard Grave. 2021. Unsupervised dense infor
mation retrieval with contrastive learning.
Sophie Jentzsch and Cigdem Turan. 2022. Gender bias
in BERT- measuring and analysing biases through
sentiment rating in a realistic downstream classifica
tion task. In Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Gen
der Bias in Natural Language Processing (GeBNLP),
pages 184–199, Seattle, Washington. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Junshu Jiang, Songyun Ye, Wei Wang, Jingran Xu, and
Xiaosheng Luo. 2020. Learning effective represen
tations for person-job fit by feature fusion. Preprint,
arXiv:2006.07017.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019.
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. IEEE
Transactions on Big Data, 7(3):535–547.
Ehsan Kamalloo, Nandan Thakur, Carlos Lassance,
Xueguang Ma, Jheng-Hong Yang, and Jimmy Lin.
2023. Resources for brewing beir: Reproducible ref
erence models and an official leaderboard. Preprint,
arXiv:2306.07471.
Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas O˘guz, Sewon Min, Patrick
Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey Edunov, Danqi Chen,
and Wen tau Yih. 2020. Dense passage retrieval
for open-domain question answering. Preprint,
arXiv:2004.04906.
Xiaopeng Li, Xiangyang Li, Hao Zhang, Zhaocheng Du,
Pengyue Jia, Yichao Wang, Xiangyu Zhao, Huifeng
Guo, and Ruiming Tang. 2024. Syneg: Llm-driven
synthetic hard-negatives for dense retrieval. Preprint,
arXiv:2412.17250.
Saket Maheshwary and Hemant Misra. 2018. Matching
resumes to jobs via deep siamese network. Compan
ion Proceedings of the The Web Conference 2018.
Eran Malach and Shai Shalev-Shwartz. 2018. De
coupling "when to update" from "how to update".
Preprint, arXiv:1706.02613.
Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R.
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn
Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. 2019. On measuring
social biases in sentence encoders. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chap
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and
Short Papers), pages 622–628, Minneapolis, Min
nesota. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sonali Mhatre, Bhawana Dakhare, Vaibhav Ankolekar,
Neha Chogale, Rutuja Navghane, and Pooja Gotarne.
2023. Resume screening and ranking using convolu
tional neural network. In 2023 International Confer
ence on Sustainable Computing and Smart Systems
(ICSCSS), pages 412–419.
Isabelle Mohr, Markus Krimmel, Saba Sturua, Moham
mad Kalim Akram, Andreas Koukounas, Michael
Günther, Georgios Mastrapas, Vinit Ravishankar,
Joan Fontanals Martínez, Feng Wang, et al.
2024. Multi-task contrastive learning for 8192
token bilingual text embeddings. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17016.
Niklas Muennighoff, Nouamane Tazi, Loïc Magne, and
Nils Reimers. 2022. Mteb: Massive text embedding
benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.07316.
Thanh-Do Nguyen, Chi Minh Bui, Thi-Hai-Yen Vuong,
and Xuan-Hieu Phan. 2023. Passage-based BM25
hard negatives: A simple and effective negative sam
pling strategy for dense retrieval. In Proceedings of
the 37th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, In
formation and Computation, pages 591–599, Hong
Kong, China. Association for Computational Linguis
tics.
Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng
Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan Majumder, and
Li Deng. 2016. MS MARCO: A human gener
ated machine reading comprehension dataset. CoRR,
abs/1611.09268.
OpenAI. 2024a. GPT-4o-mini: Advancing cost
effective intelligence.
OpenAI. 2024b. New embedding models and api up
dates.
Keiron O’Shea and Ryan Nash. 2015. An introduc
tion to convolutional neural networks. Preprint,
arXiv:1511.08458.
Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Tong Xu, Chen Zhu, Liang
Jiang, Enhong Chen, and Hui Xiong. 2018. Enhanc
ing person-job fit for talent recruitment: An ability
aware neural network approach. In The 41st Inter
national ACM SIGIR Conference on Research & De
velopment in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’18, page
25–34, New York, NY, USA. Association for Com
puting Machinery.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas
ing transferable visual models from natural language
supervision. Preprint, arXiv:2103.00020.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Stefano
Ermon, Christopher D. Manning, and Chelsea Finn.
2024. Direct preference optimization: Your lan
guage model is secretly a reward model. Preprint,
arXiv:2305.18290.
Sima Rezaeipourfarsangi and Evangelos E. Milios.
2023. Ai-powered resume-job matching: A docu
ment ranking approach using deep neural networks.
In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Document
Engineering 2023, DocEng ’23, New York, NY, USA.
Association for Computing Machinery.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. 2009. The
probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and be
yond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr., 3(4):333–389.
Joshua Robinson, Ching-Yao Chuang, Suvrit Sra, and
Stefanie Jegelka. 2021. Contrastive learning with
hard negative samples. In International Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR).
TimoSchick, Sahana Udupa, and Hinrich Schütze. 2021.
Self-diagnosis and self-debiasing: A proposal for re
ducing corpus-based bias in NLP. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:1408
1424.
Taihua Shao, Chengyu Song, Jianming Zheng, Fei Cai,
and Honghui Chen. 2023. Exploring internal and
external interactions for semi-structured multivariate
attributes in job-resume matching. In International
Journal of Intelligent Systems.
Ralf C. Staudemeyer and Eric Rothstein Morris. 2019.
Understanding lstm– a tutorial into long short
term memory recurrent neural networks. Preprint,
arXiv:1909.09586.
Qwen Team. 2024. Qwen2.5: A party of foundation
models.
Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Ab
hishek Srivastava, and Iryna Gurevych. 2021. Beir:
A heterogenous benchmark for zero-shot evalua
tion of information retrieval models. Preprint,
arXiv:2104.08663.
Andrew Trotman, Antti Puurula, and Blake Burgess.
2014. Improvements to bm25 and language models
examined. In Proceedings of the 19th Australasian
Document Computing Symposium, ADCS ’14, page
58–65, New York, NY, USA. Association for Com
puting Machinery.
Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binx
ing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang, Rangan Ma
jumder, and Furu Wei. 2022. Text embeddings by
weakly-supervised contrastive pre-training. Preprint,
try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
arXiv:2212.03533.
Lee Xiong, Chenyan Xiong, Ye Li, Kwok-Fung Tang,
Jialin Liu, Paul N. Bennett, Junaid Ahmed, and
Arnold Overwijk. 2021. Approximate nearest neigh
bor negative contrastive learning for dense text re
trieval. In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
Chen Yang, Yupeng Hou, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Ji
Rong Wen, and Wayne Xin Zhao. 2022. Modeling
two-way selection preference for person-job fit. In
RecSys.
Xiao Yu, Baolin Peng, Michel Galley, Jianfeng Gao,
and Zhou Yu. 2024a. Teaching language models
to self-improve through interactive demonstrations.
Preprint, arXiv:2310.13522.
Xiao Yu, Jinzhong Zhang, and Zhou Yu. 2024b. Confit:
Improving resume-job matching using data augmen
tation and contrastive learning. RecSys ’24, page
601–611, New York, NY, USA. Association for Com
puting Machinery.
Jingtao Zhan, Jiaxin Mao, Yiqun Liu, Jiafeng Guo, Min
Zhang, and Shaoping Ma. 2021. Optimizing dense
retrieval model training with hard negatives. In Pro
ceedings of the 44th International ACM SIGIR Con
ference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval, SIGIR ’21, page 1503–1512, New York,
NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.
Peng Zhang, Xingquan Zhu, Yong Shi, Li Guo, and
Xindong Wu. 2011. Robust ensemble learning for
mining noisy data streams. Decision Support Sys
tems, 50(2):469–479.
Yunchong Zhang, Baisong Liu, and Jiangbo Qian.
2023. Fedpjf: federated contrastive learning for
privacy-preserving person-job fit. Applied Intelli
gence, 53:27060– 27071.
Wayne Xin Zhao, Jing Liu, Ruiyang Ren, and Ji-Rong
Wen. 2024. Dense text retrieval based on pretrained
language models: A survey. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst.,
42(4).
Kun Zhou, Yeyun Gong, Xiao Liu, Wayne Xin Zhao,
Yelong Shen, Anlei Dong, Jingwen Lu, Rangan Ma
jumder, Ji-rong Wen, and Nan Duan. 2022. SimANS:
Simple ambiguous negatives sampling for dense text
retrieval. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing:
Industry Track, pages 548–559, Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Weichao Zhou, Jiaxin Zhang, Hilaf Hasson, Anu Singh,
and Wenchao Li. 2024. Hyqe: Ranking contexts
with hypothetical query embeddings. Preprint,
arXiv:2410.15262.
Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, Chao Ma, Fang
Xie, Pengliang Ding, and Pan Li. 2018. Person
job fit: Adapting the right talent for the right
job with joint representation learning. Preprint,
arXiv:1810.04040.
A MoreDetailsonModelArchitecture
FigureA1displays encodermodel architecture
usedinCONFITandCONFIT∗.Weremoveall
theadditional layersusedafter thebackboneen
coder, includingtheattentionlayersthat interact
amongfeaturesofeachfield, andtheMLPlay
ersforfeaturefusion. Instead,wedirectlyemploy
meanpoolingontheembeddingsofallthetokens
inthetextstoobtaindocument-levelrepresentation
(Wangetal.,2022;Güntheretal.,2023).Then,we
performcontrastivelearningonthedocument-level
embeddings.
Weimplementthiswithbothencoderssuchas
E5(Wangetal.,2022)andlong-contextencoders
suchasJina-v2(Güntheretal.,2023).E5supports
512input sequencelengthandJina-v2supports
8192.WeaddL2normalizationtothefeatures,and
usetemperatureTtorescalethecosinesimilarityto
facilitatetraining.ForE5weuseT=0.01,andfor
Jina-v2weuseT=0.05. InTable1andTable2,
wefindthatCONFIT∗significantlyimproveupon
CONFITacrossallsettings.
B AdditionalResultsonHYRE
B.1 HYREPrompts
Weusetheprompt inTableA8toperformfew
shotpromptingforhypotheticalresumegeneration.
Intheprompt,{{{examplejob}}},{{{examplere
sume}}}arerandomlysampledpositivepairsfrom
thetrainingset,andthe{{{targetjob}}}isthetar
getjobtobeaugmented.Fortheablationstudyin
B.3,weswaptheorderoftemplatejobandresume,
sendinaresumeastarget,andrevisetheprompt
correspondingly.Whenconcatenatingjobandhy
potheticalresume,weadd["AnExampleResume"]
inbetweenforclarity.
B.2 HYREUpperbound
Inthissection,weestimatetheupperboundper
formanceofHYREbyusingrealresumesfromthe
dataset toaugmenteachjobduringbothtraining
andtesting.However,evaluationbasedontraining
theentiredatasetistime-consuming,andthuswe
trainedonarandomlysampledsubsetcontaining
20%of thetrainingdatawhilekeepingallother
settingsidenticaltothoseusedfortrainingonthe
fulldataset.
Weexperimentwiththreestrategiesofselect
ing“ideal”referenceresumesforeachjobfrom
thedataset.Formax-match(human),weselectthe
highest-scoringresumeforeachjobaccordingto
RecruitingDataset
RankResume RankJob
Method Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10
CONFIT∗ 79.00 44.21 80.83 60.67
Max-match(human) 82.06 73.14 84.75 70.11
Max-match(Jina) 80.14 65.95 82.78 66.34
Centroid 74.82 68.28 87.50 69.29
TableA1: EstimatingHYREupperboundusingreal
resumes.Tospeed-upevaluation,wetrainedallmodels
onafixedsubsetofthedata.
RecruitingDataset
RankResume RankJob
Method Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10
CONFIT∗ 79.00 44.21 80.83 60.67
Job2Resume 80.92 46.01 85.00 65.12
Resume2Job 74.18 42.30 77.75 59.82
TableA2:Comparisonofgeneratinghypotheticaljob
postsinsteadofresume.
RecruitingDataset
RankResume RankJob
Method Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10
CONFIT∗ 79.00 44.21 80.83 60.67
GPT-4o-mini(Few-shot) 80.92 46.01 85.00 65.12
Qwen(SFT) 71.62 42.07 78.50 57.38
Qwen(SFT+DPO) 77.17 45.07 84.75 63.53
TableA3:ComparisonofFew-shotPromptingandFine
tuningHYREtrainedonsubset
additionalannotationsprovidedbyahiringsolu
tioncompany.Formax-match(Jina),weselectthe
highest-scoringresumethatachieveshighhuman
annotationscoreandahighcosinesimilarityscore
computeddirectlybyJina-v2(Güntheretal.,2023).
Forcentroid,weselectthecentroidresumeofall
acceptedresumesgivenajobpost.Sincecomput
ingthecentroidresumeacrossthefullresumepool
istime-consuming,weinsteadrestrictthepoolto
alllabeledresumesgiventhejobpost.Then,we
picktheresume,whichhastheshortestaverageL2
normalizeddistance(i.e. cosinesimilarity)toits
job’sacceptedresumes,asthecentroidresume.
WepresenttheresultsinTableA1.Compared
toCONFIT∗,allthreestrategiesshowthatHYRE
yieldsahighpotentialperformanceifthehypotheti
calresumescantrulyapproximatetherealselected
ones. ThisindicatesthatHYRE, ifimplemented
well, couldsignificantlyimproverankingjobor
rankingresumeperformance.
B.3 HypotheticalJobEmbedding
InCONFITV2,weaugmentjobdatawithhypothet
icalresumesgeneratedbyanLLM(Section3.2).
Alternatively,onecanalsoaugmentresumedata
withhypotheticaljobsgeneratedbyanLLM,which
weexperimentinthissection.
WefollowthesamesetupasAppendixB.2,but
insteadgenerateahypotheticaljobforeachresume.
Wethencomparethisagainstgeneratinghypothet
ical resumes(HYRE).Wepresent theresultsin
TableA2.Wefind,onaverage,augmentingjob
postwithhypothetical resumeismoreeffective.
Webelievethisisbecausejobdataareoftenshort
andcontainlessdetailscomparedtoresumes,mak
ingitmorebeneficialforcontentexpansion.
B.4 FinetuningHyRe
In this section,weexaminewhetherfine-tuned
LLMsarecapableofgeneratinghypothetical re
sumetoapproxiateAppendixB.2.WeperformSu
pervisedFine-tuning(SFT)andDirectPreference
Optimization(DPO)onQwen-2.5seriesmodels
(Team,2024). Specifically,we trainQwen-2.5
32B-InstructwithLoRA(Huetal.,2022)onthe
RecruitingDataset.Alltheexperimentsareimple
mentedon4A10080GBGPUs.
For SFT training, we select 6khigh-quality
resume-jobpairsthathavebothahighhumanlabel
scoreandahighcosinesimilarityscorecomputed
byJina-v2’rawembeddings. ForDPOtraining,
weselecttheresumewiththehighesthumanlabel
scoreasthechosensample,andrandomlyselect
aresumewithlower label scoreas therejected
sample.Thisresultsina“preference”datasetwith
around13kpairs.WethentrainQwen-2.5-32B
InstructwithSFTandDPO,andevaluatethecheck
pointsaftereachtrainingstage.
Tospeedupevaluation,wefollowAppendixB.2
andevaluateallmethodsusingasubsetoftheRe
cruitingdataset.WepresenttheresultinTableA3.
WefindafterSFT+DPOtraining. theQwenmodel
improvesCONFIT∗,butitdoesnotoverpassFew
shotpromptingonGPT-4o-mini.Webelievethisis
becauseacceptingaresumeissubjective,making
ithardtolearnan“idealcandidate”directlyfrom
thedatasetitself.
C AdditionalResultsonRUM
WeinvestigatetwoaspectsofRUM:(1)howdif
ferentpercentilerangesaffectperformance, and
(2)howRUMcomparestopreviousBM25-based
hard-negativeminingmethod(Karpukhinet al.,
2020;Zhaoetal.,2024).Specifically,weconsider
“BM25(top-10)”,whichretrievestop-10highest
scoringunlabeledor incorrect resume/jobcom
RecruitingDataset
RankResume RankJob
Method Recall@100 nDCG@100 Recall@10 nDCG@10
BM25(top-10) 82.95 44.62 86.75 64.36
RUM(0%-1%) 80.80 48.41 86.00 66.17
RUM(1%-2%) 85.13 49.92 85.13 66.85
RUM(2%-3%) 83.08 49.09 90.25 70.21
RUM(3%-4%) 85.43 50.99 91.38 71.34
RUM(4%-5%) 85.56 50.88 87.25 69.28
TableA4:ComparingRUMwithBM25methods,as
wellasRUMunderdifferentpercentilesranges.We
denotethisas“RUM(L%-H%)”.
Train RecruitingDataset AliyunDataset
#Jobs 9469 19542
#Resumes 41279 2718
#Labels 48096 22124
(#accept) 19042 10185
(#reject) 29054 11939
#TokenperR 1303.5(±947.3) 250.6(±96.5)
#TokenperJ 639.4(±1548.7) 335.1(±143.9)
TableA5: Trainingdataset statistics. “#Tokenper
R/J”represent themean(±std)numberof tokenper
resume/jobafterpost-processing.
RecruitingDataset AliYunDataset
Test RankR RankJ RankR RankJ
#Samples 200 200 300 300
#Jobs 200 300 300 2903
#Resumes 3000 200 1006 300
TableA6:Testdatasetstatistics.
putedbyBM25.
WepresenttheresultinTableA4.Overall,we
findRUMconsistentlysurpassesBM25-basedneg
ativesinnDCGacrossbothrankingtasks.Whenus
ingRUM,wefindalthoughrangessuchas0%–1%
outperformsBM25insomemetrics,itsignificantly
underperformsotherrangessuchas2%-3%,and
3%-4%.Thisindicatesthatmanyhigh-scoringun
labeledsamplesarelikelypositivesforperson-job
fit. Inthiswork,wepicked3%-4%duetoitshigh
averageperformance,andfixeditforallsubsequent
runs(e.g.,withdifferentmodelarchitecturesand
datasets).
D DetailsonDatasetandPreprocessing
RecruitingDataset Thetalent-jobpairsarepro
videdbyahiringsolutioncompany.Theoriginal
resumes/jobpostsareparsedintotextfieldsusing
techniquessuchasOCR.Someoftheinformation
isfurthercorrectedbyhumans. Allsensitivein
formation,suchasnames,contacts,collegenames,
ConFit v1 Encoder
ConFit v2 Encoder
linear
attention + FFNN
Backbone Encoder
...
education: Bachelor; ...
skills: python; C++; ...
experiences: SWE at ...
resume
mean pooling
Backbone Encoder
education: Bachelor; ...
skills: python; C++; ...
experiences: SWE at ...
resume
Figure A1: Encoder architecture comparison between CONFIT (left) and CONFIT V2 (right).
Recruiting Dataset
Rank Resume
Rank Job
Method
Encoder
nDCG@10-rand nDCG@10-hard nDCG@10-rand nDCG@10-hard
E5-base
RawEmbed.
Jina-base
text-embedding-003-large
21.56
11.36
39.05
15.78
12.42
30.43
39.02
34.28
72.02
29.06
34.30
60.89
BM25
CONFIT-
Jina-base
27.01
33.65
15.47
24.57
44.77
65.67
33.76
54.67
CONFIT∗ + RUM (ours) Jina-base
49.96
39.92
84.05
73.69
Table A7: Comparing ranking performance of various approaches when test set consists of hard samples mined by
BM25. Wedenote test sets using rejected and random unlabeled samples as negatives (Yu et al., 2024b) as “-rand”,
and test sets using rejected and unlabeled samples mined by BM25 as negatives as “-hard”. Since test sets are
smaller, we use nDCG@10 for all cases.
and company names, has been either removed or
converted into numeric IDs. Example resume and
job post are shown in Table A9 and Table A10,
respectively.
AliYun Dataset The 2019 Alibaba job-resume
intelligent matching competition provided resume
job data that is already desensitized and parsed into
a collection of text fields. There are 12 fields in
a resume (Table A9) and 11 fields in a job post
(Table A10) used during training/validation/testing.
Sensitive fields such as “居住城市” (living city)
were already converted into numeric IDs. “工作经
验”(work experience) was processed into a list of
keywords. Overall, the average length of a resume
or a job post in the AliYun dataset is much shorter
than that of the Recruiting dataset (see Table A5).
We present the training and test dataset statistics
in Table A5 and Table A6, respectively.
HYRE Prompt Template
Here is a template pair of matching resume and job:
[The start of the example job]
{{{example job}}}
[The end of the example job]
[The start of the example resume]
{{{example resume}}}
[The end of the example resume]
You are a helpful assistant. Following the above example pair of job and resume, construct an ideal
resume for the target job shown below. You should strictly follow the format of the given pairs, make
sure the resume you give perfectly matches the target job, and directly return your answer in plain
text.
[The start of the target job]
{{{target job}}}
[The end of the target job]
Table A8: Few-shot prompt template for hypothetical reference resume generation. “‘{{{...}}}”’ are placeholders to
be programmatically inserted during inference. “target job” is the job post to be augmented.
Rfrom Recruiting Dataset
Rfrom AliYun Dataset
## languages
MANDARIN,ENGLISH
## industries
IT.Electronic Industry
## job functions
SOFTWARE_AND_MATHEMATICS
## experiences
most recent: Software Engineer for 8 years...
second most recent: ...
## 期望工作城市
551,-,
## 学历
大专
## 期望工作行业
房地产/建筑/建材/工程
## 期望工作类型
工程造价/预结算
## 当前工作行业
房地产/建筑/建材/工程
Table A9: Example resume from the Recruiting dataset and AliYun dataset. The Recruiting dataset contains resumes
in both English and Chinese, while the AliYun dataset contains resumes only in Chinese. All documents are
available as a collection of text fields, and are formatted into a single string as shown above for CONFIT∗ training.
J from Recruiting Dataset
J from AliYun Dataset
## Basic Info
title: Sr. SWE-Perception Infra
job type: Full-Time
openings: 1
## job functions
SOFTWARE_AND_MATHEMATICS
## Requirements
Strong programming skills in C++
Minimum of a Masters Degree in CS or equivalent
2+ years of experience in software industry...
## 工作名称
工程预算
## 工作城市
719
## 工作类型
工程造价/预结算
## 最低学历
大专
## 工作描述
能够独立完成土建专业施工预算...
Table A10: Example job post from the Recruiting dataset and AliYun dataset. The Recruiting dataset contains job
posts in both English and Chinese, while the AliYun dataset contains job posts only in Chinese. All documents are
available as a collection of text fields, and are formatted into a single string as shown above for CONFIT∗ training.
Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych
Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab (UKP-TUDA)
Department of Computer Science, Technische Universit¨at Darmstadt
www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract
arXiv:1908.10084v1  [cs.CL]  27 Aug 2019
BERT(Devlin et al., 2018) and RoBERTa (Liu
et al., 2019) has set a new state-of-the-art
performance on sentence-pair regression tasks
like semantic textual similarity (STS). How
ever, it requires that both sentences are fed
into the network, which causes a massive com
putational overhead: Finding the most sim
ilar pair in a collection of 10,000 sentences
requires about 50 million inference computa
tions (~65 hours) with BERT. Theconstruction
of BERTmakes it unsuitable for semantic sim
ilarity search as well as for unsupervised tasks
like clustering.
In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modification of the pretrained
BERTnetwork that use siamese and triplet net
work structures to derive semantically mean
ingful sentence embeddings that can be com
pared using cosine-similarity. This reduces the
effort for finding the most similar pair from 65
hours with BERT / RoBERTa to about 5 sec
onds with SBERT, while maintaining the ac
curacy from BERT.
We evaluate SBERT and SRoBERTa on com
mon STS tasks and transfer learning tasks,
where it outperforms other state-of-the-art
sentence embeddings methods.1
1 Introduction
In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modification of the BERT network us
ing siamese and triplet networks that is able to
derive semantically meaningful sentence embed
dings2. This enables BERT to be used for certain
new tasks, which up-to-now were not applicable
for BERT. These tasks include large-scale seman
1Code available: https://github.com/UKPLab/
sentence-transformers
2With semantically meaningful we mean that semantically
similar sentences are close in vector space.
tic similarity comparison, clustering, and informa
tion retrieval via semantic search.
BERT set new state-of-the-art performance on
various sentence classification and sentence-pair
regression tasks. BERT uses a cross-encoder: Two
sentences are passed to the transformer network
and the target value is predicted. However, this
setup is unsuitable for various pair regression tasks
due to too many possible combinations. Finding
in a collection of n = 10000 sentences the pair
with the highest similarity requires with BERT
n·(n−1)/2 = 49995000inferencecomputations.
On a modern V100 GPU, this requires about 65
hours. Similar, finding which of the over 40 mil
lion existent questions of Quora is the most similar
for a new question could be modeled as a pair-wise
comparison with BERT, however, answering a sin
gle query would require over 50 hours.
Acommon method to address clustering and se
mantic search is to map each sentence to a vec
tor space such that semantically similar sentences
are close. Researchers have started to input indi
vidual sentences into BERT and to derive fixed
size sentence embeddings. The most commonly
used approach is to average the BERT output layer
(known as BERTembeddings)orbyusingtheout
put of the first token (the [CLS] token). As we
will show, this common practice yields rather bad
sentence embeddings, often worse than averaging
GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al., 2014).
To alleviate this issue, we developed SBERT.
The siamese network architecture enables that
fixed-sized vectors for input sentences can be de
rived. Using a similarity measure like cosine
similarity or Manhatten / Euclidean distance, se
mantically similar sentences can be found. These
similarity measures can be performed extremely
efficient on modern hardware, allowing SBERT
to be used for semantic similarity search as well
as for clustering. The complexity for finding the
most similar sentence pair in a collection of 10,000
sentences is reduced from 65 hours with BERT to
the computation of 10,000 sentence embeddings
(~5 seconds with SBERT) and computing cosine
similarity (~0.01 seconds). By using optimized
index structures, finding the most similar Quora
question can be reduced from 50 hours to a few
milliseconds (Johnson et al., 2017).
We fine-tune SBERT on NLI data, which cre
ates sentence embeddings that significantly out
perform other state-of-the-art sentence embedding
methods like InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017) and
Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer et al., 2018). On
seven Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks,
SBERT achieves an improvement of 11.7 points
compared to InferSent and 5.5 points compared to
Universal Sentence Encoder. On SentEval (Con
neau and Kiela, 2018), an evaluation toolkit for
sentence embeddings, we achieve an improvement
of 2.1 and 2.6 points, respectively.
SBERT can be adapted to a specific task. It
sets new state-of-the-art performance on a chal
lenging argument similarity dataset (Misra et al.,
2016) and on a triplet dataset to distinguish sen
tences from different sections of a Wikipedia arti
cle (Dor et al., 2018).
The paper is structured in the following way:
Section 3 presents SBERT, section 4 evaluates
SBERT on common STS tasks and on the chal
lenging Argument Facet Similarity (AFS) corpus
(Misra et al., 2016). Section 5 evaluates SBERT
on SentEval. In section 6, we perform an ablation
study to test some design aspect of SBERT. In sec
tion 7, we compare the computational efficiency of
SBERT sentence embeddings in contrast to other
state-of-the-art sentence embedding methods.
2 Related Work
We first introduce BERT, then, we discuss state
of-the-art sentence embedding methods.
BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) is a pre-trained
transformer network (Vaswani et al., 2017), which
set for various NLP tasks new state-of-the-art re
sults, including question answering, sentence clas
sification, and sentence-pair regression. The input
for BERT for sentence-pair regression consists of
the two sentences, separated by a special [SEP]
token. Multi-head attention over 12 (base-model)
or 24 layers (large-model) is applied and the out
put is passed to a simple regression function to de
rive the final label. Using this setup, BERT set a
new state-of-the-art performance on the Semantic
Textual Semilarity (STS) benchmark (Cer et al.,
2017). RoBERTa (Liu et al., 2019) showed, that
the performance of BERT can further improved by
small adaptations to the pre-training process. We
also tested XLNet (Yang et al., 2019), but it led in
general to worse results than BERT.
A large disadvantage of the BERT network
structure is that no independent sentence embed
dings are computed, which makes it difficult to de
rive sentence embeddings from BERT. To bypass
this limitations, researchers passed single sen
tences through BERT and then derive a fixed sized
vector by either averaging the outputs (similar to
average word embeddings) or by using the output
of the special CLS token (for example: May et al.
(2019); Zhang et al. (2019); Qiao et al. (2019)).
These two options are also provided by the popu
lar bert-as-a-service-repository3. Up to our knowl
edge, there is so far no evaluation if these methods
lead to useful sentence embeddings.
Sentence embeddings are a well studied area
with dozens of proposed methods. Skip-Thought
(Kiros et al., 2015) trains an encoder-decoder ar
chitecture to predict the surrounding sentences.
InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017) uses labeled
data of the Stanford Natural Language Inference
dataset (Bowman et al., 2015) and the Multi
Genre NLI dataset (Williams et al., 2018) to train
a siamese BiLSTM network with max-pooling
over the output. Conneau et al. showed, that
InferSent consistently outperforms unsupervised
methods like SkipThought. Universal Sentence
Encoder (Cer et al., 2018) trains a transformer
network and augments unsupervised learning with
training on SNLI. Hill et al. (2016) showed, that
the task on which sentence embeddings are trained
significantly impacts their quality. Previous work
(Conneau et al., 2017; Cer et al., 2018) found that
the SNLI datasets are suitable for training sen
tence embeddings. Yang et al. (2018) presented
a method to train on conversations from Reddit
using siamese DAN and siamese transformer net
works, which yielded good results on the STS
benchmark dataset.
Humeau et al. (2019) addresses the run-time
overhead of the cross-encoder from BERT and
present a method (poly-encoders) to compute
a score between m context vectors and pre
3https://github.com/hanxiao/
bert-as-service/
-1 … 1 
Softmax classifier 
(u, v, |u-v|) 
u v 
pooling 
pooling 
BERT BERT 
Sentence A Sentence B 
Figure 1: SBERT architecture with classification ob
jective function, e.g., for fine-tuning on SNLI dataset.
The two BERT networks have tied weights (siamese
network structure).
computed candidate embeddings using attention.
This idea works for finding the highest scoring
sentence in a larger collection. However, poly
encoders have the drawback that the score function
is not symmetric and the computational overhead
is too large for use-cases like clustering, which
would require O(n2) score computations.
Previous neural sentence embedding methods
started the training from a random initialization.
In this publication, we use the pre-trained BERT
and RoBERTa network and only fine-tune it to
yield useful sentence embeddings. This reduces
significantly the needed training time: SBERT can
be tuned in less than 20 minutes, while yielding
better results than comparable sentence embed
ding methods.
3 Model
SBERT adds a pooling operation to the output
of BERT / RoBERTa to derive a fixed sized sen
tence embedding. We experiment with three pool
ing strategies: Using the output of the CLS-token,
computing the mean of all output vectors (MEAN
strategy), and computing a max-over-time of the
output vectors (MAX-strategy). The default config
uration is MEAN.
In order to fine-tune BERT / RoBERTa, we cre
ate siamese and triplet networks (Schroff et al.,
2015) to update the weights such that the produced
sentence embeddings are semantically meaningful
and can be compared with cosine-similarity.
The network structure depends on the available
cosine-sim(u, v) 
u v 
pooling 
pooling 
BERT BERT 
Sentence A Sentence B 
Figure 2: SBERT architecture at inference, for exam
ple, to compute similarity scores. This architecture is
also used with the regression objective function.
training data. We experiment with the following
structures and objective functions.
Classification Objective Function. We con
catenate the sentence embeddings u and v with
the element-wise difference |u−v| and multiply it
with the trainable weight Wt ∈ R3n× k:
o = softmax(Wt(u,v,|u − v|))
where n is the dimension of the sentence em
beddings and k the number of labels. We optimize
cross-entropy loss. This structure is depicted in
Figure 1.
Regression Objective Function. The cosine
similarity between the two sentence embeddings
u and v is computed (Figure 2). We use mean
squared-error loss as the objective function.
Triplet Objective Function. Given an anchor
sentence a, a positive sentence p, and a negative
sentence n, triplet loss tunes the network such that
the distance between a and p is smaller than the
distance between a and n. Mathematically, we
minimize the following loss function:
max(||sa − sp|| − ||sa − sn|| + ,0)
with sx the sentence embedding for a/n/p, || · ||
a distance metric and margin . Margin ensures
that sp is at least closer to sa than sn. As metric
we use Euclidean distance and we set = 1 in our
experiments.
3.1 Training Details
We train SBERT on the combination of the SNLI
(Bowman et al., 2015) and the Multi-Genre NLI
Model STS12 STS13 STS14 STS15 STS16 STSb SICK-R Avg.
Avg. GloVe embeddings 55.14 70.66 59.73 68.25 63.66 58.02 53.76
Avg.BERTembeddings 38.78 57.98 57.98 63.15 61.06 46.35 58.40
BERT CLS-vector 20.16 30.01 20.09 36.88 38.08 16.50 42.63
InferSent- Glove 52.86 66.75 62.15 72.77 66.87 68.03 65.65
Universal Sentence Encoder 64.49 67.80 64.61 76.83 73.18 74.92 76.69
61.32
54.81
29.19
65.01
71.22
SBERT-NLI-base 70.97 76.53 73.19 79.09 74.30 77.03 72.91
SBERT-NLI-large 72.27 78.46 74.90 80.99 76.25 79.23 73.75
74.89
76.55
SRoBERTa-NLI-base 71.54 72.49 70.80 78.74 73.69 77.77 74.46
SRoBERTa-NLI-large 74.53 77.00 73.18 81.85 76.82 79.10 74.29
74.21
76.68
Table 1: Spearman rank correlation ρ between the cosine similarity of sentence representations and the gold labels
for various Textual Similarity (STS) tasks. Performance is reported by convention as ρ × 100. STS12-STS16:
SemEval 2012-2016, STSb: STSbenchmark, SICK-R: SICK relatedness dataset.
(Williams et al., 2018) dataset. The SNLI is a col
lection of 570,000 sentence pairs annotated with
the labels contradiction, eintailment, and neu
tral. MultiNLI contains 430,000 sentence pairs
and covers a range of genres of spoken and written
text. We fine-tune SBERT with a 3-way softmax
classifier objective function for one epoch. We
used a batch-size of 16, Adam optimizer with
learning rate 2e−5, and a linear learning rate
warm-up over 10% of the training data. Our de
fault pooling strategy is MEAN.
4 Evaluation- Semantic Textual
Similarity
We evaluate the performance of SBERT for com
mon Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks.
State-of-the-art methods often learn a (complex)
regression function that maps sentence embed
dings to a similarity score. However, these regres
sion functions work pair-wise and due to the com
binatorial explosion those are often not scalable if
the collection of sentences reaches a certain size.
Instead, we always use cosine-similarity to com
pare the similarity between two sentence embed
dings. We ran our experiments also with nega
tive Manhatten and negative Euclidean distances
as similarity measures, but the results for all ap
proaches remained roughly the same.
4.1 Unsupervised STS
We evaluate the performance of SBERT for STS
without using any STS specific training data. We
use the STS tasks 2012- 2016 (Agirre et al., 2012,
2013, 2014, 2015, 2016), the STS benchmark (Cer
et al., 2017), and the SICK-Relatedness dataset
(Marelli et al., 2014). These datasets provide la
bels between 0 and 5 on the semantic relatedness
of sentence pairs. We showed in (Reimers et al.,
2016) that Pearson correlation is badly suited for
STS. Instead, we compute the Spearman’s rank
correlation between the cosine-similarity of the
sentence embeddings and the gold labels. The
setup for the other sentence embedding methods
is equivalent, the similarity is computed by cosine
similarity. The results are depicted in Table 1.
The results shows that directly using the output
of BERT leads to rather poor performances. Av
eraging the BERT embeddings achieves an aver
age correlation of only 54.81, and using the CLS
token output only achieves an average correlation
of 29.19. Both are worse than computing average
GloVe embeddings.
Using the described siamese network structure
and fine-tuning mechanism substantially improves
the correlation, outperforming both InferSent and
Universal Sentence Encoder substantially. The
only dataset where SBERT performs worse than
Universal Sentence Encoder is SICK-R. Universal
Sentence Encoder was trained on various datasets,
including news, question-answer pages and dis
cussion forums, which appears to be more suitable
to the data of SICK-R. In contrast, SBERT was
pre-trained only on Wikipedia (via BERT) and on
NLI data.
While RoBERTa was able to improve the per
formance for several supervised tasks, we only
observe minor difference between SBERT and
SRoBERTa for generating sentence embeddings.
4.2 Supervised STS
The STS benchmark(STSb)(Ceretal., 2017) pro
vides is a popular dataset to evaluate supervised
STS systems. The data includes 8,628 sentence
pairs from the three categories captions, news, and
forums. It is divided into train (5,749), dev (1,500)
and test (1,379). BERT set a new state-of-the-art
performance on this dataset by passing both sen
tences to the network and using a simple regres
sion method for the output.
Model Spearman
Not trained for STS
Avg. GloVe embeddings 58.02
Avg.BERTembeddings 46.35
InferSent- GloVe 68.03
Universal Sentence Encoder 74.92
SBERT-NLI-base 77.03
SBERT-NLI-large 79.23
Trained on STS benchmark dataset
BERT-STSb-base 84.30±0.76
SBERT-STSb-base 84.67±0.19
SRoBERTa-STSb-base 84.92 ± 0.34
BERT-STSb-large 85.64±0.81
SBERT-STSb-large 84.45±0.43
SRoBERTa-STSb-large 85.02 ± 0.76
Trained on NLI data + STS benchmark data
BERT-NLI-STSb-base 88.33 ± 0.19
SBERT-NLI-STSb-base 85.35 ± 0.17
SRoBERTa-NLI-STSb-base 84.79 ± 0.38
BERT-NLI-STSb-large 88.77 ± 0.46
SBERT-NLI-STSb-large 86.10 ± 0.13
SRoBERTa-NLI-STSb-large 86.15 ± 0.35
Table 2: Evaluation on the STS benchmark test set.
BERT systems were trained with 10 random seeds and
4 epochs. SBERT was fine-tuned on the STSb dataset,
SBERT-NLI was pretrained on the NLI datasets, then
fine-tuned on the STSb dataset.
We use the training set to fine-tune SBERT us
ing the regression objective function. At predic
tion time, we compute the cosine-similarity be
tween the sentence embeddings. All systems are
trained with 10 random seeds to counter variances
(Reimers and Gurevych, 2018).
The results are depicted in Table 2. We ex
perimented with two setups: Only training on
STSb, and first training on NLI, then training on
STSb. We observe that the later strategy leads to a
slight improvement of 1-2 points. This two-step
approach had an especially large impact for the
BERT cross-encoder, which improved the perfor
mance by 3-4 points. We do not observe a signifi
cant difference between BERT and RoBERTa.
4.3 Argument Facet Similarity
We evaluate SBERT on the Argument Facet Sim
ilarity (AFS) corpus by Misra et al. (2016). The
AFS corpus annotated 6,000 sentential argument
pairs from social media dialogs on three contro
versial topics: gun control, gay marriage, and
death penalty. The data was annotated on a scale
from 0 (“different topic”) to 5 (“completely equiv
alent”). The similarity notion in the AFS corpus
is fairly different to the similarity notion in the
STS datasets from SemEval. STS data is usually
descriptive, while AFS data are argumentative ex
cerpts from dialogs. To be considered similar, ar
guments must not only make similar claims, but
also provide a similar reasoning. Further, the lex
ical gap between the sentences in AFS is much
larger. Hence, simple unsupervised methods as
well as state-of-the-art STS systems perform badly
on this dataset (Reimers et al., 2019).
We evaluate SBERT on this dataset in two sce
narios: 1) As proposed by Misra et al., we evaluate
SBERT using 10-fold cross-validation. A draw
back of this evaluation setup is that it is not clear
how well approaches generalize to different top
ics. Hence, 2) we evaluate SBERT in a cross-topic
setup. Two topics serve for training and the ap
proach is evaluated on the left-out topic. We repeat
this for all three topics and average the results.
SBERT is fine-tuned using the Regression Ob
jective Function. The similarity score is computed
using cosine-similarity based on the sentence em
beddings. We also provide the Pearson correla
tion r to make the results comparable to Misra et
al. However, we showed (Reimers et al., 2016)
that Pearson correlation has some serious draw
backs and should be avoided for comparing STS
systems. The results are depicted in Table 3.
Unsupervised methods like tf-idf, average
GloVe embeddings or InferSent perform rather
badly on this dataset with low scores. Training
SBERT in the 10-fold cross-validation setup gives
a performance that is nearly on-par with BERT.
However, in the cross-topic evaluation, we ob
serve a performance drop of SBERT by about 7
points Spearman correlation. To be considered
similar, arguments should address the same claims
and provide the same reasoning. BERT is able to
use attention to compare directly both sentences
(e.g. word-by-word comparison), while SBERT
must map individual sentences from an unseen
topic to a vector space such that arguments with
similar claims and reasons are close. This is a
much more challenging task, which appears to re
quire more than just two topics for training to work
on-par with BERT.
4.4 Wikipedia Sections Distinction
Dor et al. (2018) use Wikipedia to create a the
matically fine-grained train, dev and test set for
sentence embeddings methods. Wikipedia arti
cles are separated into distinct sections focusing
on certain aspects. Dor et al. assume that sen
Model r ρ
Model Accuracy
Unsupervised methods
tf-idf 46.77 42.95
Avg.GloVe embeddings 32.40 34.00
InferSent- GloVe 27.08 26.63
10-fold Cross-Validation
SVR(Misra et al., 2016) 63.33
BERT-AFS-base 77.20 74.84
SBERT-AFS-base 76.57 74.13
BERT-AFS-large 78.68 76.38
SBERT-AFS-large 77.85 75.93
Cross-Topic Evaluation
BERT-AFS-base 58.49 57.23
SBERT-AFS-base 52.34 50.65
BERT-AFS-large 62.02 60.34
SBERT-AFS-large 53.82 53.10
Table 3: Average Pearson correlation r and average
Spearman’s rank correlation ρ on the Argument Facet
Similarity (AFS) corpus (Misra et al., 2016). Misra et
al. proposes 10-fold cross-validation. We additionally
evaluate in a cross-topic scenario: Methods are trained
on two topics, and are evaluated on the third topic.
tences in the same section are thematically closer
than sentences in different sections. They use this
to create a large dataset of weakly labeled sen
tence triplets: The anchor and the positive exam
ple come from the same section, while the neg
ative example comes from a different section of
the same article. For example, from the Alice
Arnold article: Anchor: Arnold joined the BBC
Radio Drama Company in 1988., positive: Arnold
gained media attention in May 2012., negative:
Balding and Arnold are keen amateur golfers.
We use the dataset from Dor et al. We use the
Triplet Objective, train SBERT for one epoch on
the about 1.8 Million training triplets and evaluate
it on the 222,957 test triplets. Test triplets are from
a distinct set of Wikipedia articles. As evaluation
metric, we use accuracy: Is the positive example
closer to the anchor than the negative example?
Results are presented in Table 4. Dor et al. fine
tuned a BiLSTM architecture with triplet loss to
derive sentence embeddings for this dataset. As
the table shows, SBERT clearly outperforms the
BiLSTM approach by Dor et al.
5 Evaluation- SentEval
SentEval (Conneau and Kiela, 2018) is a popular
toolkit to evaluate the quality of sentence embed
dings. Sentence embeddings are used as features
for a logistic regression classifier. The logistic re
gression classifier is trained on various tasks in a
10-fold cross-validation setup and the prediction
accuracy is computed for the test-fold.
mean-vectors 0.65
skip-thoughts-CS 0.62
Dor etal. 0.74
SBERT-WikiSec-base 0.8042
SBERT-WikiSec-large 0.8078
SRoBERTa-WikiSec-base 0.7945
SRoBERTa-WikiSec-large 0.7973
Table 4: Evaluation on the Wikipedia section triplets
dataset (Dor et al., 2018). SBERT trained with triplet
loss for one epoch.
The purpose of SBERT sentence embeddings
are not to be used for transfer learning for other
tasks. Here, we think fine-tuning BERT as de
scribed by Devlin et al. (2018) for new tasks is
the more suitable method, as it updates all layers
of the BERT network. However, SentEval can still
give an impression on the quality of our sentence
embeddings for various tasks.
We compare the SBERT sentence embeddings
to other sentence embeddings methods on the fol
lowing seven SentEval transfer tasks:
• MR:Sentiment prediction for movie reviews
snippets on a five start scale (Pang and Lee,
2005).
• CR: Sentiment prediction of customer prod
uct reviews (Hu and Liu, 2004).
• SUBJ: Subjectivity prediction of sentences
from movie reviews and plot summaries
(Pang and Lee, 2004).
• MPQA: Phrase level opinion polarity classi
fication from newswire (Wiebe et al., 2005).
• SST: Stanford Sentiment Treebank with bi
nary labels (Socher et al., 2013).
• TREC: Fine grained question-type classifi
cation from TREC (Li and Roth, 2002).
• MRPC:Microsoft Research Paraphrase Cor
pus from parallel news sources (Dolan et al.,
2004).
The results can be found in Table 5. SBERT
is able to achieve the best performance in 5 out
of 7 tasks. The average performance increases
by about 2 percentage points compared to In
ferSent as well as the Universal Sentence Encoder.
Even though transfer learning is not the purpose of
SBERT, it outperforms other state-of-the-art sen
tence embeddings methods on this task.
Model MR CR SUBJ MPQA SST TREC MRPC Avg.
Avg. GloVe embeddings 77.25 78.30 91.17 87.85 80.18 83.0 72.87
Avg.fast-text embeddings 77.96 79.23 91.68 87.81 82.15 83.6 74.49
Avg.BERTembeddings 78.66 86.25 94.37 88.66 84.40 92.8 69.45
BERT CLS-vector 78.68 84.85 94.21 88.23 84.13 91.4 71.13
InferSent- GloVe 81.57 86.54 92.50 90.38 84.18 88.2 75.77
Universal Sentence Encoder 80.09 85.19 93.98 86.70 86.38 93.2 70.14
81.52
82.42
84.94
84.66
85.59
85.10
SBERT-NLI-base 83.64 89.43 94.39 89.86 88.96 89.6 76.00
SBERT-NLI-large 84.88 90.07 94.52 90.33 90.66 87.4 75.94
87.41
87.69
Table 5: Evaluation of SBERT sentence embeddings using the SentEval toolkit. SentEval evaluates sentence
embeddings on different sentence classification tasks by training a logistic regression classifier using the sentence
embeddings as features. Scores are based on a 10-fold cross-validation.
It appears that the sentence embeddings from
SBERT capture well sentiment information: We
observe large improvements for all sentiment tasks
(MR, CR, and SST) from SentEval in comparison
to InferSent and Universal Sentence Encoder.
The only dataset where SBERT is significantly
worse than Universal Sentence Encoder is the
TREC dataset. Universal Sentence Encoder was
pre-trained on question-answering data, which ap
pears to be beneficial for the question-type classi
fication task of the TREC dataset.
Average BERT embeddings or using the CLS
token output from a BERT network achieved bad
results for various STS tasks (Table 1), worse than
average GloVe embeddings. However, for Sent
Eval, average BERT embeddings and the BERT
CLS-token output achieves decent results (Ta
ble 5), outperforming average GloVe embeddings.
The reason for this are the different setups. For
the STS tasks, we used cosine-similarity to es
timate the similarities between sentence embed
dings.
Cosine-similarity treats all dimensions
equally. In contrast, SentEval fits a logistic regres
sion classifier to the sentence embeddings. This
allows that certain dimensions can have higher or
lower impact on the classification result.
We conclude that average BERT embeddings /
CLS-token output from BERT return sentence em
beddings that are infeasible to be used with cosine
similarity or with Manhatten / Euclidean distance.
For transfer learning, they yield slightly worse
results than InferSent or Universal Sentence En
coder. However, using the described fine-tuning
setup with a siamese network structure on NLI
datasets yields sentence embeddings that achieve
a new state-of-the-art for the SentEval toolkit.
6 Ablation Study
We have demonstrated strong empirical results for
the quality of SBERT sentence embeddings. In
this section, we perform an ablation study of dif
ferent aspects of SBERT in order to get a better
understanding of their relative importance.
We evaluated different pooling strategies
(MEAN, MAX, and CLS). For the classification
objective function, we evaluate different concate
nation methods. For each possible configuration,
we train SBERT with 10 different random seeds
and average the performances.
The objective function (classification vs. regres
sion) depends on the annotated dataset. For the
classification objective function, we train SBERT
base on the SNLI and the Multi-NLI dataset. For
the regression objective function, we train on the
training set of the STS benchmark dataset. Perfor
mances are measured on the development split of
the STS benchmark dataset. Results are shown in
Table 6.
NLI STSb
Pooling Strategy
MEAN 80.78 87.44
MAX 79.07 69.92
CLS 79.80 86.62
Concatenation
(u, v) 66.04
(|u−v|) 69.78
(u∗v) 70.54
(|u−v|,u∗v) 78.37
(u,v,u∗v) 77.44
(u,v,|u−v|) 80.78
(u,v,|u−v|,u∗v) 80.44
Table 6: SBERT trained on NLI data with the clas
sification objective function, on the STS benchmark
(STSb) with the regression objective function. Con
figurations are evaluated on the development set of the
STSb using cosine-similarity and Spearman’s rank cor
relation. For the concatenation methods, we only report
scores with MEAN pooling strategy.
When trained with the classification objective
function on NLI data, the pooling strategy has a
rather minor impact. The impact of the concate
nation mode is much larger. InferSent (Conneau
et al., 2017) and Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer
et al., 2018) both use (u,v,|u − v|,u ∗v) as input
for a softmax classifier. However, in our architec
ture, adding the element-wise u ∗ v decreased the
performance.
The most important component is the element
wise difference |u − v|. Note, that the concate
nation mode is only relevant for training the soft
max classifier. At inference, when predicting sim
ilarities for the STS benchmark dataset, only the
sentence embeddings u and v are used in combi
nation with cosine-similarity. The element-wise
difference measures the distance between the di
mensions of the two sentence embeddings, ensur
ing that similar pairs are closer and dissimilar pairs
are further apart.
When trained with the regression objective
function, we observe that the pooling strategy has
a large impact. There, the MAX strategy perform
significantly worse than MEAN or CLS-token strat
egy. This is in contrast to (Conneau et al., 2017),
who found it beneficial for the BiLSTM-layer of
InferSent to use MAX instead of MEAN pooling.
7 Computational Efficiency
Sentence embeddings need potentially be com
puted for Millions of sentences, hence, a high
computation speed is desired. In this section, we
compare SBERT to average GloVe embeddings,
InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017), and Universal
Sentence Encoder (Cer et al., 2018).
For our comparison we use the sentences from
the STS benchmark (Cer et al., 2017). We com
pute average GloVe embeddings using a sim
ple for-loop with python dictionary lookups and
NumPy. InferSent4 is based on PyTorch. For
Universal Sentence Encoder, we use the Tensor
Flow Hub version5, which is based on Tensor
Flow. SBERT is based on PyTorch. For improved
computation of sentence embeddings, we imple
mented a smart batching strategy: Sentences with
similar lengths are grouped together and are only
padded to the longest element in a mini-batch.
This drastically reduces computational overhead
from padding tokens.
Performances were measured on a server with
Intel i7-5820K CPU @ 3.30GHz, Nvidia Tesla
4https://github.com/facebookresearch/
InferSent
5https://tfhub.dev/google/
universal-sentence-encoder-large/3
V100 GPU, CUDA 9.2 and cuDNN. The results
are depicted in Table 7.
Model CPU GPU
Avg. GloVe embeddings 6469
InferSent 137 1876
Universal Sentence Encoder 67 1318
SBERT-base 44 1378
SBERT-base- smart batching 83 2042
Table 7: Computation speed (sentences per second) of
sentence embedding methods. Higher is better.
On CPU, InferSent is about 65% faster than
SBERT. This is due to the much simpler net
work architecture. InferSent uses a single Bi
LSTM layer, while BERT uses 12 stacked trans
former layers. However, an advantage of trans
former networks is the computational efficiency
on GPUs. There, SBERT with smart batching
is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55%
faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. Smart
batching achieves a speed-up of 89% on CPU and
48%onGPU.AverageGloVeembeddingsisobvi
ously by a large margin the fastest method to com
pute sentence embeddings.
8 Conclusion
We showed that BERT out-of-the-box maps sen
tences to a vector space that is rather unsuit
able to be used with common similarity measures
like cosine-similarity. The performance for seven
STS tasks was below the performance of average
GloVe embeddings.
To overcome this shortcoming, we presented
Sentence-BERT (SBERT). SBERT fine-tunes
BERT in a siamese / triplet network architec
ture. We evaluated the quality on various com
mon benchmarks, where it could achieve a sig
nificant improvement over state-of-the-art sen
tence embeddings methods. Replacing BERT with
RoBERTa did not yield a significant improvement
in our experiments.
SBERT is computationally efficient. On a GPU,
it is about 9% faster than InferSent and about 55%
faster than Universal Sentence Encoder. SBERT
can be used for tasks which are computationally
not feasible to be modeled with BERT. For exam
ple, clustering of 10,000 sentences with hierarchi
cal clustering requires with BERT about 65 hours,
as around 50 Million sentence combinations must
be computed. With SBERT, we were able to re
duce the effort to about 5 seconds.
Acknowledgments
This work has been supported by the German
Research Foundation through the German-Israeli
Project Cooperation (DIP, grant DA 1600/1-1 and
grant GU 798/17-1). It has been co-funded by the
German Federal Ministry of Education and Re
search (BMBF) under the promotional references
03VP02540 (ArgumenText).
References
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel
Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Inigo Lopez-Gazpio, Montse Maritxalar, Rada
Mihalcea, German Rigau, Larraitz Uria, and Janyce
Wiebe. 2015. SemEval-2015 Task 2: Semantic Tex
tual Similarity, English, Spanish and Pilot on Inter
pretability. In Proceedings of the 9th International
Workshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2015),
pages 252–263, Denver, Colorado. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Claire Cardie, Daniel
Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Weiwei
Guo, Rada Mihalcea, German Rigau, and Janyce
Wiebe. 2014. SemEval-2014 Task 10: Multilingual
Semantic Textual Similarity. In Proceedings of the
8th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation
(SemEval 2014), pages 81–91, Dublin, Ireland. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Carmen Banea, Daniel M. Cer, Mona T.
Diab, Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Rada Mihalcea, Ger
man Rigau, and Janyce Wiebe. 2016. SemEval
2016 Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity, Mono
lingual and Cross-Lingual Evaluation. In Proceed
ings of the 10th International Workshop on Seman
tic Evaluation, SemEval@NAACL-HLT 2016, San
Diego, CA, USA, June 16-17, 2016, pages 497–511.
EnekoAgirre, Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Aitor Gonzalez
Agirre, and Weiwei Guo. 2013. *SEM 2013 shared
task: Semantic Textual Similarity. In Second Joint
Conference on Lexical and Computational Seman
tics (*SEM), Volume 1: Proceedings of the Main
Conference and the Shared Task: Semantic Textual
Similarity, pages 32–43, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. As
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Eneko Agirre, Mona Diab, Daniel Cer, and Aitor
Gonzalez-Agirre. 2012. SemEval-2012 Task 6: A
Pilot on Semantic Textual Similarity. In Proceed
ings of the First Joint Conference on Lexical and
Computational Semantics- Volume 1: Proceedings
of the Main Conference and the Shared Task, and
Volume 2: Proceedings of the Sixth International
Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, SemEval ’12,
pages 385–393, Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Samuel R. Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts,
and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. A large anno
tated corpus for learning natural language inference.
In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empiri
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
632–642, Lisbon, Portugal. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Daniel Cer, Mona Diab, Eneko Agirre, Iigo Lopez
Gazpio, and Lucia Specia. 2017. SemEval-2017
Task 1: Semantic Textual Similarity Multilingual
and Crosslingual Focused Evaluation. In Proceed
ings of the 11th International Workshop on Semantic
Evaluation (SemEval-2017), pages 1–14, Vancou
ver, Canada.
Daniel Cer, Yinfei Yang, Sheng-yi Kong, Nan Hua,
Nicole Limtiaco, Rhomni St. John, Noah Constant,
Mario Guajardo-Cespedes, Steve Yuan, Chris Tar,
Yun-Hsuan Sung, Brian Strope, and Ray Kurzweil.
2018. Universal Sentence Encoder. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.11175.
Alexis Conneau and DouweKiela. 2018. SentEval: An
Evaluation Toolkit for Universal Sentence Represen
tations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05449.
Alexis Conneau, Douwe Kiela, Holger Schwenk, Lo¨ ıc
Barrault, and Antoine Bordes. 2017. Supervised
Learning of Universal Sentence Representations
from Natural Language Inference Data. In Proceed
ings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 670–680,
Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for Computa
tional Linguistics.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT: Pre-training of
Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Un
derstanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Bill Dolan, Chris Quirk, and Chris Brockett. 2004. Un
supervised Construction of Large Paraphrase Cor
pora: Exploiting Massively Parallel News Sources.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Confer
ence on Computational Linguistics, COLING ’04,
Stroudsburg, PA, USA. Association for Computa
tional Linguistics.
Liat Ein Dor, Yosi Mass, Alon Halfon, Elad Venezian,
Ilya Shnayderman, Ranit Aharonov, and Noam
Slonim. 2018. Learning Thematic Similarity Metric
from Article Sections Using Triplet Networks. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the As
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2:
Short Papers), pages 49–54, Melbourne, Australia.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Felix Hill, Kyunghyun Cho, and Anna Korhonen.
2016. Learning Distributed Representations of Sen
tences from Unlabelled Data. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference of the North American Chap
ter of the Association for Computational Linguis
tics: Human Language Technologies, pages 1367
1377, San Diego, California. Association for Com
putational Linguistics.
Minqing Hu and Bing Liu. 2004. Mining and Sum
marizing Customer Reviews. In Proceedings of the
Tenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD ’04,
pages 168–177, New York, NY, USA. ACM.
Samuel Humeau, Kurt Shuster, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
and Jason Weston. 2019. Real-time Inference
in Multi-sentence Tasks with Deep Pretrained
Transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.01969,
abs/1905.01969.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Herv´ e J´egou. 2017.
Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1702.08734.
Ryan Kiros, Yukun Zhu, Ruslan R Salakhutdinov,
Richard Zemel, Raquel Urtasun, Antonio Torralba,
and Sanja Fidler. 2015. Skip-Thought Vectors. In
C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence, D. D.Lee, M.Sugiyama,
and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Infor
mation Processing Systems 28, pages 3294–3302.
Curran Associates, Inc.
Xin Li and Dan Roth. 2002. Learning Question Classi
fiers. In Proceedings of the 19th International Con
ference on Computational Linguistics- Volume 1,
COLING ’02, pages 1–7, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019.
RoBERTa: A Robustly Optimized BERT Pretrain
ing Approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692.
Marco Marelli, Stefano Menini, Marco Baroni, Luisa
Bentivogli, Raffaella Bernardi, and Roberto Zam
parelli. 2014. A SICK cure for the evaluation of
compositional distributional semantic models. In
Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference
on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC’14),
pages 216–223, Reykjavik, Iceland. European Lan
guage Resources Association (ELRA).
Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R.
Bowman, and Rachel Rudinger. 2019. On Mea
suring Social Biases in Sentence Encoders. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1903.10561.
Amita Misra, Brian Ecker, and Marilyn A. Walker.
2016. Measuring the Similarity of Sentential Ar
guments in Dialogue. In Proceedings of the SIG
DIAL 2016 Conference, The 17th Annual Meeting
of the Special Interest Group on Discourse and Di
alogue, 13-15 September 2016, Los Angeles, CA,
USA, pages 276–287.
Bo Pang and Lillian Lee. 2004. A Sentimental Educa
tion: Sentiment Analysis Using Subjectivity Sum
marization Based on Minimum Cuts. In Proceed
ings of the 42nd Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL’04), Main Volume,
pages 271–278, Barcelona, Spain.
Bo Pang and Lillian Lee. 2005. Seeing Stars: Exploit
ing Class Relationships for Sentiment Categoriza
tion with Respect to Rating Scales. In Proceedings
of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (ACL’05), pages 115
124, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christo
pher D. Manning. 2014. GloVe: Global Vectors for
Word Representation. In Empirical Methods in Nat
ural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1532
1543.
Yifan Qiao, Chenyan Xiong, Zheng-Hao Liu, and
Zhiyuan Liu. 2019.
Understanding the Be
haviors of BERT in Ranking. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.07531.
Nils Reimers, Philip Beyer, and Iryna Gurevych. 2016.
Task-Oriented Intrinsic Evaluation of Semantic Tex
tual Similarity. In Proceedings of the 26th Inter
national Conference on Computational Linguistics
(COLING), pages 87–96.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2018. Why Com
paring Single Performance Scores Does Not Al
low to Draw Conclusions About Machine Learn
ing Approaches. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09578,
abs/1803.09578.
Nils Reimers, Benjamin Schiller, Tilman Beck, Jo
hannes Daxenberger, Christian Stab, and Iryna
Gurevych. 2019. Classification and Clustering of
Arguments with Contextualized Word Embeddings.
In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the As
sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 567
578, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Florian Schroff, Dmitry Kalenichenko, and James
Philbin. 2015. FaceNet: A Unified Embedding for
Face Recognition and Clustering. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1503.03832, abs/1503.03832.
Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Wu, Jason
Chuang, Christopher D. Manning, Andrew Ng, and
Christopher Potts. 2013. Recursive Deep Models for
Semantic Compositionality Over a Sentiment Tree
bank. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process
ing, pages 1631–1642, Seattle, Washington, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is All
you Need. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio,
H.Wallach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Gar
nett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Pro
cessing Systems 30, pages 5998–6008.
Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.
2005. Annotating Expressions of Opinions and
Emotions in Language. Language Resources and
Evaluation, 39(2):165–210.
Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel Bowman.
2018. A Broad-Coverage Challenge Corpus for
Sentence Understanding through Inference. In Pro
ceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North Amer
ican Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Vol
ume1(LongPapers), pages1112–1122.Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Yinfei Yang, Steve Yuan, Daniel Cer, Sheng-Yi Kong,
Noah Constant, Petr Pilar, Heming Ge, Yun-hsuan
Sung, Brian Strope, and Ray Kurzweil. 2018.
Learning Semantic Textual Similarity from Conver
sations. In Proceedings of The Third Workshop
on Representation Learning for NLP, pages 164
174, Melbourne, Australia. Association for Compu
tational Linguistics.
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime G.
Carbonell, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V. Le.
2019. XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretrain
ing for Language Understanding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1906.08237, abs/1906.08237.
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q.
Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2019. BERTScore:
Evaluating Text Generation with BERT. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1904.09675.
ConFit: Improving Resume-Job Matching using Data
Augmentation and Contrastive Learning
Xiao Yu
Columbia University
NewYork, NY, USA
xy2437@columbia.edu
Abstract
Jinzhong Zhang
Intellipro Group Inc.
Beijing, China
jinzhong@intelliprogroup.com
Areliable resume-job matching system helps a company find suit
Zhou Yu
Columbia University
NewYork, USA
zy2461@columbia.edu
month [20]. With the ever increasing growth of online recruit
ment platforms, building fast and reliable person-job fit systems
able candidates from a pool of resumes, and helps a job seeker find
relevant jobs from a list of job posts. However, since job seekers ap
ply only to a fewjobs, interaction records in resume-job datasets are
sparse. Different from many prior work that use complex modeling
techniques, we tackle this sparsity problem using data augmen
tations and a simple contrastive learning approach. ConFit first
formulates resume-job datasets as a sparse bipartite graph, and
creates an augmented dataset by paraphrasing specific sections in a
resume or a job post. Then, ConFit finetunes pre-trained encoders
with contrastive learning to further increase training samples from
𝐵 pairs per batch to O(𝐵2) per batch. We evaluate ConFit on two
real-world datasets and find it outperforms prior methods (includ
ing BM25 and OpenAI text-ada-002) by up to 19% and 31% absolute
in nDCG@10 for ranking jobs and ranking resumes, respectively.
Webelieve ConFit’s simple yet highly performant approach lays a
strong foundation for future research in modeling person-job fit.1
CCS Concepts
• Information systems → Recommender systems; • Comput
ing methodologies → Ranking.
Keywords
person-job fit, contrastive learning, data augmentation
ACM Reference Format:
Xiao Yu, Jinzhong Zhang, and Zhou Yu. 2024. ConFit: Improving Resume
Job Matching using Data Augmentation and Contrastive Learning. In 18th
ACM Conference on Recommender Systems (RecSys ’24), October 14–18, 2024,
Bari, Italy. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/
3640457.3688108
1 Introduction
Online recruitment platforms, such as LinkedIn, have over 900
million users, with over 100 million job applications made each
1Code at https://github.com/jasonyux/ConFit
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
©2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0505-2/24/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3640457.3688108
is desiderated. A practical system should be able to quickly select
suitable talents and jobs from large candidate pools, and also reli
ably quantify the “matching degree” between a resume and a job
post.
Since both resumes and job posts are often stored as text data,
many recent work [1, 39, 45, 55, 57] focus on designing complex
modeling techniques to model resume-job matching (or referred
to as “person-job fit”). For example, APJFNN [39] uses hierarchical
recurrent neural networks to process the job and resume content,
and DPGNN[55] uses a dual-perspective graph neural network to
model the relationship between resumes and jobs. However, these
methods only show limited improvements, and they often: optimize
only for a single task (e.g., interview classification); are hard to
accommodate new, unseen resumes or jobs; and are designed for a
particular data setting (e.g., applicable only if a specific recruitment
platform is used).
In this work, we present a simple method to model resume-job
matching, with strong performances in both resume/job ranking
and resume-job pair classification tasks. We propose ConFit, an
approach to learn high-quality dense embeddings for resumes and
jobs, which can be combined with techniques such as FAISS [24]
to rank tens of thousands of resumes and jobs in milliseconds. To
combat label sparsity in person-job fit datasets, ConFit first uses
data augmentation techniques to increase the number of training
samples, and then uses contrastive learning [27, 52] to train an
encoder. We evaluate ConFit on two resume-job matching datasets
and find our approach outperforms previous methods (including
strong baselines from information retrieval such as BM25) in almost
all ranking and classification tasks, with up to 20-30% absolute
improvement in ranking jobs and resumes.
2 Background
A resume-job matching (or often called a person-job fit) system
models the suitability between a resume and a job, allowing it to
select the most suitable candidates given a job post, or recommend
the most relevant jobs given a candidate’s resume [1, 45, 55]. A job
post 𝐽 (or a resume 𝑅) is commonly structured as a collection of
texts 𝐽 = {x𝐽
𝑖 }𝑝
𝑖=1 , where each piece of text may represent certain
sections of the document, such as “Required Skills” for a job post or
“Experiences” for a resume [2, 45]. Thus, the person-job fit problem
is often formulated as a text-based task to model a “matching” score:
match(𝑅, 𝐽) = 𝑓𝜃(𝑅, 𝐽) → R
where 𝑓𝜃 typically involves neural networks [45, 55, 57] such as
BERT [12].
601
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
Yu et al.
With the ever-increasing growth of online recruitment data,
there is a large number of job posts and resumes(privately)available.
However, since a candidate applies to only a small selection of jobs,
interactions between resumes and jobs is very sparse [1]. Often, the
resulting dataset D = {𝑅𝑖, 𝐽𝑖,𝑦𝑖} has size |D| ≪ 𝑛𝑅 ×𝑛𝐽 , where
𝑛𝑅 and 𝑛𝐽 are the total number of resumes and jobs respectively,
and𝑦𝑖 ∈ {0,1} is a binary signal representing whether a resume 𝑅𝑖
is accepted for an interview by a job 𝐽𝑖. For example, in both the
IntelliPro and AliYun dataset (Section 4.1) used in this work, less
than 0.05% of the total possible (resume, job) pairs are annotated.
While some private datasets [55] may contain additional labels,
such as whether the candidate or recruiter “requested” additional
information from the other party, we focus on the more common
case where only a binary signal is available.
3 Approach
We propose ConFit, a simple and general-purpose approach to
model resume-job matching using contrastive learning and data
augmentation. ConFit produces a dense embedding of a given
resume or job post, and models the matching score between an
⟨𝑅, 𝐽⟩ pair as the inner product of their representations. This sim
ple formulation allows ConFit to quickly rank a large number of
resumes or jobs when combined with retrieval techniques such as
FAISS [24]. In Section 3.1, we describe our approach to augment a
person-job fit dataset, and in Section 3.2 we describe the contrastive
learning approach used during training.
3.1 Data Augmentation
A person-job fit dataset may be considered as a sparse bipartite
graph, where each resume𝑅𝑖 andjob 𝐽𝑖 is a node, andalabel (accept
or reject) is an edge between the two nodes. Given a resume 𝑅𝑖, we
first create augmented versions ˆ𝑅𝑖 by paraphrasing certain sections
such as “Experiences” (see Appendix B for more details). Since ˆ𝑅𝑖
includes semantically similar information as 𝑅𝑖, we inherit the
same edges from 𝑅𝑖 to ˆ𝑅𝑖, i.e., any job 𝐽𝑗 that accepts 𝑅𝑖 for in
terview also accepts ˆ𝑅𝑖. Next, we perform the same augmentation
procedure for jobs, creating ˆ𝐽𝑖 that inherits the same edges as 𝐽𝑖 in
the graph (which involves augmented ˆ𝑅𝑖s). As a result, augment
ing 𝑛aug resumes and jobs each for once approximately doubles the
number of edges/labeled pairs (often ≫ 𝑛aug) in the dataset. ConFit
thus first performs data augmentation to increase the number of la
beled pairs, and then uses contrastive learning (Section 3.2) to train
a high-quality encoder. Below, we briefly describe paraphrasing
methods used in this work.
EDA Augmentation. Given a piece of text from a resume or a
job, we use EDA [53] to randomly replace, delete, swap, or insert
words to create a paraphrased version of the text. We find this to be
a simple and fast method to create syntactically altered texts that
are semantically similar to the original text.
ChatGPT Augmentation. Besides EDA, we also use ChatGPT [37]
to perform paraphrasing. ChatGPT has been used on many data
augmentation tasks [6, 11], and in this work, we similarly prompt
ChatGPT to paraphrase a given piece of text (see Appendix B for
more details). This produces semantically paragraphed texts that
are often more diverse than EDA.
3.2 Contrastive Learning
Given an augmented dataset, ConFit uses contrastive learning
[8, 52] to further increase the number of training instances from
𝐵 per batch to O(𝐵2) per batch. Contrastive learning is also an
effective technique for learning a high-quality embedding space,
and is used in various domains such as information retrieval [27]
and representation learning [8, 52]. To our knowledge, ConFit is
the first to identify the label sparsity issue inherent to person-job
fit datasets (Section 2), and the first to address it with contrastive
learning and data augmentation techniques (Section 3.1).
To perform contrastive learning, first we construct contrastive
training instances from a dataset D = {𝑅𝑖, 𝐽𝑖,𝑦𝑖}:
Dcon = {⟨𝑅+
𝑖 , 𝐽+
𝑖 ,𝑅−
𝑖,1, ..., 𝑅−
𝑖,𝑙 , 𝐽 −
𝑖,1, ..., 𝐽 −
𝑖,𝑙 ⟩},
where each instance contains one positive pair of matched resume
job ⟨𝑅+
𝑖 , 𝐽+
𝑖 ⟩ with𝑦𝑖 = 1, and𝑙 unsuitable resumes 𝑅−
𝑖,𝑙 for a job 𝐽+
𝑖
as well as 𝑙 unsuitable jobs 𝐽−
𝑖,𝑙 for a resume 𝑅+
𝑖 . However, different
from information retrieval systems [27, 51] where ranking is an
asymmetric task (given a query, rank passages), the person-job
fit problem is symmetric (given a resume, rank jobs, and also vice
versa). We thus modify the cross-entropy loss used by prior work
in contrastive learning [8, 15, 52] to capture this symmetric nature:
L =L𝑅+L𝐽
𝑒𝑠𝜃 (𝑅+
𝑖 ,𝐽 +
𝑖 )
L𝑅 =−log
L𝐽 =−log
𝑒𝑠𝜃 (𝑅+
𝑖 ,𝐽 +
𝑖 ) + 𝑙
𝑗=1𝑒𝑠𝜃(𝑅+
𝑖 ,𝐽 −
𝑖,𝑗 )
𝑒𝑠𝜃 (𝑅+
𝑖 ,𝐽 +
𝑖 )
𝑒𝑠𝜃 (𝑅+
𝑖 ,𝐽 +
𝑖 ) + 𝑙
𝑗=1𝑒𝑠𝜃(𝑅−
𝑖,𝑗 ,𝐽+
𝑖 )
(1)
Similar to training retrieval systems [27], we find the number and
choice of negative samples important to obtain a high-quality en
coder. We discuss how ConFit chooses negative samples below.
1 ⟩, ..., ⟨𝑅+
𝐵, 𝐽+
In-batch negatives. Let there be 𝐵 positive pairs in a mini-batch
{⟨𝑅+
1 , 𝐽+
𝐵
⟩} during training. For each resume 𝑅+
𝑖 , we use
the other 𝐵 − 1 jobs {𝐽+
𝑗≠𝑖 } as negative samples, and similarly for
each job 𝐽+
𝑖 , we use the other 𝐵 − 1 resumes as negative samples.
The trick of in-batch negatives thus trains on 𝐵2 resume-job pairs
in each batch, and is highly computationally efficient [16, 27, 51].
In person-job fit, this has a natural interpretation that random
(in-batch) negative samples are unsuitable resumes/jobs for a given
job/resume. In practice, we find that using in-batch negatives alone
is sufficient to yield competitive ranking performances compared
to prior approaches (see Section 4.7).
Hard negatives. In addition to in-batch negative samples, we
also sample up to 2 × 𝐵hard hard negatives for each batch to fur
ther improve ConFit training. In information retrieval systems,
hard negatives [27, 51] are often passages that are relevant to the
query (e.g. have a high BM25 [43] score) but do not contain the
correct answer. In person-job fit, we believe that this extends to
resumes/jobs that are explicitly rejected for a given job/resume. This
is because often when a candidate submits a resume for a given job
post, the resume is already highly relevant regardless of whether the
candidate is accepted or rejected. Therefore, rejected resume-job
pairs naturally represent hard negatives that are highly relevant yet
602
ConFit: ImprovingResume-JobMatchingusingDataAugmentationandContrastiveLearning RecSys’24,October14–18,2024,Bari,Italy
notideal.Wenotethatsincethesehardnegativesarechosenonly
usingexistingdatalabels(e.g.,resumesrejectedbyjobs), itdoes
notrequireadditionalcomputeasinotherhardnegativemining
methodssuchas[27,51].Wethereforebelievethismethodiseasy
to-useandalsoscalabletolargerdatasets.Inpractice,wesample
upto𝐵hard rejectedresumesashardnegativesforanyofthe𝐵
jobsinthemini-batch,aswellas𝐵hard jobsthatrejectedanyof
the𝐵resumes.These2×𝐵hardhardnegativesarethenusedbyall
resumes/jobsinthebatch, increasingthenumberoftrainingpairs
to(𝐵+𝐵hard)2−𝐵2
hard perbatch.
3.3 ConFit
Toaddressthelabelsparsityprobleminperson-jobfitdatasets,
ConFitfirstaugmentsthedatasetusingtechniquesintroduced
inSection3.1.Then,ConFittrainsanencodernetwork𝐸𝜃using
contrastivelearningdescribedinSection3.2.Givenresumesand
jobpostsduringinference,ConFitfirstusestheencoder𝐸𝜃 to
obtainadenserepresentationforeachresume𝑅andjob𝐽.Then,
ConFitproducesamatchingscore𝑠𝜃betweenthe⟨𝑅,𝐽⟩pairusing
innerproduct:
match(𝑅,𝐽)=𝐸𝜃(𝑅)𝑇𝐸𝜃(𝐽)≡𝑠𝜃(𝑅,𝐽)
ThissimpleformulationallowsConFittocombinedwithtech
niquessuchasFAISS[24]toefficientlyranktensofthousandsof
resumesandjobsinmilliseconds(Section4.6).
4 Experiments
WeevaluateConFitontworeal-worldperson-jobfitdatasets,and
measureitsperformanceandruntimeonrankingresumes,ranking
jobs,aswellasonafine-grainedinterviewclassificationtask.
4.1 DatasetandPreprocessing
AliYunDataset.Toourknowledge,the2019Alibabajob-resume
intelligentmatchingcompetition2providedtheonlypubliclyavail
ableperson-jobfitdataset.Allresumeandjobpostsweredesensi
tizedandwerealreadyparsedintoacollectionoftextfields,such
as“Education”,“Age”,and“WorkExperiences”foraresume(see
AppendixCformoredetails).AllresumesandjobsareinChinese.
IntelliproDataset.Theresumesandjobpostsarecollectedfrom
aglobalhiringsolutioncompany,called“IntelliproGroupInc.”.To
protecttheprivacyofcandidates,allrecordshavebeenanonymized
byremovingsensitiveidentityinformation.Foreachresume-job
pair,werecordwhetherthecandidateisaccepted(𝑦=1)orrejected
(𝑦=0)foraninterview.Forgeneralizability,weparseallresumes
andjobsintosimilarsections/fieldsastheAliYundataset.Both
EnglishandChineseresumesandjobsareincluded.
Sinceneitherdatasethasanofficialtestset,wefirstconstructtest
setswithstatisticsshowninTable3.Tomeasuretherankingability
ofcurrentmethods,weconsidertwotasks:1)ranking𝑞=100
resumesgivenajobpost(denotedasRankResume),and2)ranking
𝑞=100jobsgivenaresume(denotedasRankJob).Sinceonlya
fewresumesandjobsarelabeled,wefillinrandomresumes/jobs
toreach𝑞slotswhenneeded,giventhat𝑞ismuchsmallerthanthe
totalnumberofresumes/jobsinthedataset.Wefurtherconsider
2https://tianchi.aliyun.com/competition/entrance/231728
Table1:Trainingdatasetstatistics.#Wordsper𝑅/𝐽 represent
theaveragenumberofwordsperresume/job.
Train IntelliproDataset AliyunDataset
#Jobs 1794 19542
#Resumes 6435 2718
#Labels 6751 22124
(#accept) 2809 10185
(#reject) 3942 11939
#Industries 16 20
#Fieldsper𝑅 8 12
#Fieldsper𝐽 9 11
#Wordsper𝑅 915.2 101.9
#Wordsper𝐽 174.7 153.1
Table2:Validationdatasetstatistics.Therearemorelabels
thanresumes/jobssincearesumemaybeacceptedorrejected
bymultiplejobs.
Validation IntelliproDataset AliyunDataset
#Jobs 109 299
#Resumes 120 278
#Labels 120 300
Table3:Testdatasetstatistics.Classifyisabinaryclassifica
tiontasktopredictwhetheraresume-jobpairisacceptedor
rejectedforinterview.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
Test Rank𝑅 Rank𝐽 Classify Rank𝑅 Rank𝐽 Classify
#Samples 120 120 120 300 300 300
#Jobs 120 427 104 300 2903 299
#Resumes 1154 120 117 1006 300 280
the“fine-grained”scoringabilityofcurrentmethods,bymeasuring
howwellamethodcandistinguishbetweenanacceptedresume-job
pairandarejectedone(denotedasclassification).Weexcludeall
resumesandjobsusedintestandvalidationsetsfromthetraining
set,andpresentthetraining,validation,andtestsetstatisticsin
Table1,Table2andTable3,respectively.
4.2 ModelArchitecture
Sincebothdatasetsrepresentresumesandjobpostsasacollection
oftextfields,wesimplifythemodelarchitecturefromInEXIT[45],
whichisshowntooutperformmodelarchitecturesusedinmany
priorworks.WeoutlinethearchitectureinFigure1.
InEXITencodeseachtextfield(e.g.,“education:Bachelor;...”)in
aresumeorajobindependentlyusingapre-trainedencoder,and
considersahierarchicalattentionmechanismtomodelperson-job
fitasinteractionsbetweenthesefields.FollowingInEXIT,wefirst
encodeeachfieldindependently,andmodelthe“internalinterac
tion”betweenthefieldswithinaresume/jobusingattention[50].
InEXITthenusesanotherattentionlayeronalltextfieldsofthe
603
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
Yu et al.
linear
attention + FFNN
Backbone Encoder
education: Bachelor; ...
...
resume
skills: python; C++; ...
experiences: SWE at ...
Figure 1: Model architecture used to encode a resume or a job
post, formattedasacollectionof𝑝 textfields(seeAppendixC
for a full example of resume/job). Instead of concatenating
all 𝑝 fields, each field is processed independently [45] in the
model as a mean to increase maximum context length.
resume-job pair to model the “external interaction” between a re
sumeanda jobpost,andfinallyproducesascoreusinganMLPlayer
(see Appendix A for more details). Since ConFit models person-job
fit based on independently produced resume/job embeddings, we
replace the last attention and MLP layer with a linear layer, which
directly fuses the field representations into a single dense vector
for a given resume or a job post (Figure 1).
In practice, we find fields such as “Experiences” and “Projects” in
aresume often containlong texts,sothatthetotal lengthoftenreach
∼1,000 tokens, whereas for many neural encoders (e.g., BERT) has
a maximum sequence length of 512. Since this approach encodes
each of the 𝑝 fields in a resume (or a job post) independently, it
effectively increases maximum context length of neural encoders to
𝑝×512.Thisenables the modeltoprocess the entirety of resume/job
documents. Therefore, for a fair comparison, in our experiments
we 1) employ the same model architecture described above for all
applicable methods, and 2) share the backbone encoder in ConFit
when modeling both resumes and jobs, as other methods such as
Bian et al. [1], Shao et al. [45] only used one encoder.
4.3 Baselines
We compare ConFit against both recent best person-job fit systems
and strong baselines from information retrieval systems.
Recent person-job fit systems can be grouped into twocategories:
classification-targeted and ranking-targeted. The bestclassification
targeted system include MV-CoN [1] and InEXIT [45]. MV-CoN
considers a co-teaching network [19] to learn from sparse, noisy
person-job fit data, and InEXIT uses hierarchical attention to model
interactions between the text fields of a resume-job pair. Both meth
ods optimize for the classification task. The best ranking-targeted
systems include DPGNN [55]. DPGNN considers a dual-perspective
graph view of person-job fit and uses a BPR loss [41] to optimize for
resume and job ranking. Other older methods such as APJFNN [39]
and PJFNN [57] are omitted since they were already outperformed
by these more recent methods [1, 45, 55].
We also compare against methods from information retrieval
systems such as: BM25 [43, 48] and RawEmbed. BM25 is a strong
baseline used for many text ranking tasks [26, 47, 51], and RawEm
bed is based on dense retrieval methods [24, 27] that directly con
catenates all text fields and uses a pre-trained encoder to produce
a single dense embedding for inner product scoring. Finally, we
also consider XGBoost [7] as a generic method for classification and
ranking tasks, where features can be Bag-of-Words (BoW), TF-IDF
vectors, and pre-trained embeddings from RawEmbed.
Unless otherwise indicated, ConFit first uses data augmentation
withbothEDAandChatGPT,eachaugmenting500resumesand500
jobs for each dataset (Section 3.1), followed by contrastive learning
with 𝐵 = 8 and 𝐵hard = 8 (Section 3.2). See Appendix E for other
hyperparameters used by ConFit, and see Appendix D for more
implementation details of the baselines.
4.4 Metrics
Following prior work [27, 55], we use Mean Average Precision
(MAP) and normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (nDCG) to
measure the ranking ability of each method. Since most resume-job
pairs are unlabeled, we report nDCG@10. To measure the fine
grained classification ability of a method, we follow prior work in
person-job fit [1, 39, 45, 57] and use weighted F1, precision, and
recall. Since correctly predicting a positive sample (i.e., a suitable
job for a resume) is important in practice, we report precision and
recall for the positive class (denoted as Prc+ and Rcl+, respectively).
4.5 Main Results
Table 4 summarizes ConFit’s performance in comparison to other
baselines, when an encoder with ∼180M parameters is used as the
backbone. This includes using BERT-base3 [12] and E5-small [51].
In general, we find that classification-targeted systems such as MV
CoN and InEXIT achieve a high F1 score but have poor ranking
ability, while ranking-targeted methods such as RawEmbed,DPGNN,
and BM25 perform much better in ranking. With a small encoder
model, we find ConFit achieves the best ranking performance
in three out of the four tasks, and BM25 achieves the best in the
remaining task. ConFit also achieves the best F1 score on the Intel
lipro classification task compared to other classification-targeted
systems.
Table 5 summarizes each method’s performance when a larger
backbone encoder (∼560M parameters) is used. This includes multi
lingual-E5-large [51], xlm-roberta-large [10, 29], or OpenAI text
ada-0024 [36]. Similar to Table 4, we find that classification-targeted
methods such as MV-CoN reach a high F1 score, while ranking
targeted methods achieve a better MAP and nDCG score. We also
3Since the AliYun dataset is solely in Chinese, we use BERT-base-chinese for the
AliYun dataset and BERT-base-multilingual-cased for the Intellipro dataset.
4Model size unknown.
604
ConFit: ImprovingResume-JobMatchingusingDataAugmentationandContrastiveLearning RecSys’24,October14–18,2024,Bari,Italy
Table4:Comparingrankingandclassificationperformanceofvariousapproacheswhenasmallencoderisused.F1isweighted
F1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+andRcl+areprecisionandrecallforpositiveclasses.Resultsfornon-deterministicmethods
areaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upisingray.**denotes𝑝<0.01and*denotes𝑝<0.05.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
XGBoost
BoW 14.42 11.84 3.89 2.98 49.51 37.74 41.67 6.67 6.25 13.63 12.53 69.57 72.00 54.14
TF-IDF 10.18 7.87 4.11 2.94 55.00 43.75 43.75 5.56 4.96 13.85 13.21 68.78 69.16 55.64
BERT-base 8.45 7.69 5.57 5.24 61.01 50.98 54.17 5.34 5.10 13.45 12.22 70.63 73.27 55.64
RawEmbed. E5-small 28.61 33.88 25.48 30.26 54.20 42.86 31.25 16.06 17.89 20.26 22.84 38.64 27.78 22.56
BERT-base 13.07 13.94 4.41 3.62 49.25 34.38 22.92 9.18 10.63 12.35 12.63 46.71 40.00 40.60
MV-CoN BERT-base 10.81 10.00 3.34 2.17 58.00 50.00 33.33 5.41 5.15 13.44 12.67 74.25 72.22 68.32
InEXIT BERT-base 12.27 12.98 4.11 3.46 55.55 44.74 35.42 5.25 4.98 13.02 12.30 71.75 66.67 72.18
DPGNN BERT-base 19.64 21.95 17.86 19.60 61.16 52.38 45.83 19.96 24.64 27.23 30.07 50.31 45.24 57.14
BM25-39.13 44.96 37.88 43.15---34.71 40.56 27.30 31.18--
Ours BERT-base 44.47** 49.51** 39.57* 45.67* 63.78* 55.81* 50.00 30.79 37.71 36.13** 41.65** 47.16 41.10 45.11
Table5:Comparingrankingandclassificationperformanceofvariousapproacheswhenalargerencoderisused.F1isweighted
F1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+andRcl+areprecisionandrecallforpositiveclasses.Resultsfornon-deterministicmethods
areaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upisingray.**denotes𝑝<0.01and*denotes𝑝<0.05.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
XGBoost
BoW 14.42 11.84 3.89 2.98 49.51 37.74 41.67 6.67 6.25 13.63 12.53 69.57 72.00 54.14
TF-IDF 10.18 7.87 4.11 2.94 55.00 43.75 43.75 5.56 4.96 13.85 13.21 68.78 69.16 55.64
text-ada-002 9.87 9.94 4.15 3.58 62.43 53.19 52.08 6.40 6.08 13.46 12.93 62.43 53.19 52.08
RawEmbed.
xlm-roberta-l 14.46 14.95 13.22 13.94 51.27 40.00 16.67 7.07 6.90 11.25 10.75 53.48 47.62 52.63
E5-large 35.10 40.10 26.93 30.61 59.39 51.43 37.50 32.11 37.45 24.56 28.15 44.67 35.64 27.07
text-ada-002 42.85 48.11 43.28 51.11 58.92 48.89 45.83 31.47 37.06 21.94 24.80 39.72 32.35 33.08
MV-CoN E5-large 12.23 10.98 4.06 3.09 52.75 40.51 27.08 5.60 5.15 12.92 12.67 70.85 77.53 51.88
InEXIT E5-large 13.60 13.63 3.14 1.91 55.17 45.16 29.17 5.49 4.33 13.39 13.21 70.41 74.74 53.58
DPGNN E5-large 21.31 24.08 13.90 17.69 55.56 48.00 25.00 33.98 40.63 42.76 46.98 53.88 48.03 45.86
BM25- 39.13 44.96 37.88 43.15---34.71 40.56 27.30 31.18--
Ours E5-large 43.08* 50.28* 42.88 51.74 54.09 45.21 68.75** 64.32** 71.71** 59.13** 65.91** 59.71 53.66 66.17**
findthatConFitnowachievesthebestrankingperformancesinall
cases,exceptfortheMAPscoreintheIntelliPro’sjobrankingtask.
WebelievethisisbecausetheIntelliProdatasetcontainsmuchless
datacomparedtotheAliYundataset(Table1).IntheAliYundataset,
ConFitimprovesupto∼30%absoluteinMAPandnDCGscore
forrankingresumesandupto∼20%forrankingjobs.Webelieve
thisisbecausetheAliYundatasetnotonlyhasmoredata,butalso
usesmuchshorterandconcisetextscomparedtotheIntellipro
dataset(Table1).Lastly,wefindConFitremainscompetitivein
classificationtaskforbothdatasets,despitenotdirectlyoptimizing
forthem.
4.6 RuntimeAnalysis
Apracticalrecruitmentsystemneedstoquicklyrankalargenumber
ofresumesgivenajobpost,orviceversa.Afastrankingsystemcan
notonlyhelpimproveuserexperiences,butalsoenableresearchers
anddeveloperstomoreeasilyanalyzecurrentrecruitmenttrends
atscale.Tothisend,wemeasuretheruntimetorank100;1,000;
and10,000jobsforagivenresumefromtheAliYundataset,and
comparethespeedofvariousneural-basedmethodsfromTable4.
WepresenttheresultsinFigure2.Ingeneral,methodsthatranksby
innerproductsearch(RawEmbedandConFit)canutilizeFAISS[24]
toachievearuntimeinmillisecondsinallcases5.However,methods
suchasMV-CoN,InEXIT,andDPGNNrequiresa(partial)forward
pass foreachresume-jobpair toproduceascorebetween(see
AppendixFformoredetails).Webelievethisishighlyinefficient,
especiallywhenthenumberofdocumentstorank(e.g., jobposts)
islarge.
4.7 AblationStudies
Table6presentsourablationstudiesforeachcomponentofConFit
training.WefocusonusingBERT-basefromTable4asitisless
resource-intensivetotrain.
First,weconsiderConFittoonlyusecontrastivelearning(de
notedas+contrastive)undervarioussettings,suchas𝐵=8,𝐵hard=
{0,2,4,8}. InTable6,wefindthat:a) increasingthenumberof
5Afterembeddingallrelevantresumeandjobposts,whichonlyneedstobecomputed
once.
605
RecSys’24,October14–18,2024,Bari,Italy Yuetal.
Table6:ConFitablationstudies.ConFitusescontrastivelearning(+contrastive)with𝐵hard=8,andDataAugmentation(+Data
Aug.)withbothChatGPTandEDA.Bestresultineachablationgroupishighlightedinbold.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Modification MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
+contrastive 42.96 49.28 42.23 49.21 59.17 56.00 29.17 27.53 33.34 34.05 37.83 47.60 40.77 39.85
𝐵hard=0 31.15 36.88 38.94 44.89 52.02 44.16 70.83 13.73 15.43 32.52 37.23 43.31 34.51 29.32
𝐵hard=2 41.85 47.77 41.24 47.46 56.14 56.58 19.79 25.42 31.08 31.59 35.64 45.65 38.64 38.35
𝐵hard=4 40.86 45.69 41.29 47.78 61.69 62.36 33.33 25.60 30.65 32.72 36.15 44.51 38.67 43.61
+DataAug. 44.47 49.51 39.57 45.67 63.78 55.81 50.00 30.79 37.71 36.13 41.65 47.16 41.10 45.11
ChatGPTonly 41.36 47.45 39.54 46.98 58.75 71.43 20.83 29.69 35.59 35.11 40.13 47.00 39.67 36.09
EDAonly 39.49 46.03 40.25 46.03 60.64 65.00 27.08 27.06 33.08 34.69 39.16 46.30 38.39 32.33
EDA-all 39.03 45.56 40.09 45.76 60.64 65.00 27.08 28.21 33.77 33.77 38.13 45.59 37.82 33.83
Table7:ConFitwithoutneuralnetworks(denotedasOurs+XGBoost)iscompetitiveagainstmanypriorperson-jobfitmethods
withBERT-baseasabackboneencoder.F1isweightedF1score,nDCGisnDCG@10,Prc+andRcl+areprecisionandrecallfor
positiveclasses.Resultsfornon-deterministicmethodsareaveragedover3runs.Bestresultisshowninbold,andrunner-upis
showningray.
IntelliproDataset AliYunDataset
RankResume RankJob Classification RankResume RankJob Classification
Method Encoder MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+ MAP nDCG MAP nDCG F1 Prc+ Rcl+
MV-CoN BERT-base 10.81 10.00 3.34 2.17 58.00 50.00 33.33 5.41 5.15 13.44 12.67 74.25 72.22 68.32
InEXIT BERT-base 12.27 12.98 4.11 3.46 55.55 44.74 35.42 5.25 4.98 13.02 12.30 71.75 66.67 72.18
DPGNN BERT-base 19.64 21.95 17.86 19.60 61.16 52.38 45.83 19.96 24.64 27.23 30.07 50.31 45.24 57.14
Ours+XGBoost TF-IDF 24.04 27.29 15.60 17.23 43.60 37.66 60.42 24.19 28.95 30.29 33.66 52.31 47.51 64.67
100 1000 10000
Number of job posts to rank
100
101
102
Runtime (s)
MIPS (ConFit, RawEmbed)
Non-linear (MV-CoN, InEXIT, DPGNN)
Figure2:Runtimecomparisonbetweenneural-basedmeth
ods.MIPSaremaximuminnerproductsearchmethodsthat
aresupportedbyFAISS[24].Non-linearmethodsrequirean
additionalforwardpasstoproduceascorebetweenaresume
jobpair.Resultsareaveragesoverthreeruns.
hardnegatives(𝐵hard)improvesrankingperformance,andb)using
contrastivelearningalonealreadyoutperformsmanybaselinesin
Table4.Thissuggeststhatcontrastivelearningplaysamajorrole
inConFit’sperformance.
Next,weadddataaugmentationtocontrastivetraining,and
measuretheperformanceof:1)usingonlyChatGPTtoaugment
500resumesandjobs,denotedasChatGPTonly;2)usingEDAto
augment500resumesandjobs,denotedEDAonly;3)usingEDA
toaugmentallresume/jobseenduringtraining,denotedasEDA
all;and4)combiningboth1)and2),denotedas+DataAug. In
general,wefindcombiningbothChatGPTandEDAaugmenta
tionmostoftenachievesthebestperformance.Webelievethisis
becausesuchapproachincludesbothsemanticallyparaphrasedcon
tentfromChatGPTandsyntacticallyalteredcontent(e.g., inserting
orremovingwords)fromEDA.EspeciallyfortheAliYundataset,
wefindusinganyformofdataaugmentationontopofcontrastive
learningimprovesoverusingcontrastivelearningalone.Webe
lievethisisbecauseAliYun’sresume/jobtextsaremuchshorter
andmoreconcisethanthoseoftheIntelliprodataset,thusmaking
dataaugmentationeasiertoperform.
SinceConFittrainingismodel-agnostic,wealsoexperiment
withcompletelyremovingneuralnetworks,andonlyuseTF-IDF
representationswithXGBoost.Despiteseeingperformancedegra
dationcomparedtoConFitwithpretrainedencoders,wefindthis
approachisstillcompetitiveagainstpriorbestperson-jobfitsys
temsthatusesBERT(seeAppendixGandTable7formoredetails).
Thissuggeststhatthecontrastivelearninganddataaugmentation
procedurefromConFitiseffectivefortheperson-jobfittask.
5 Analysis
Inthissection,weprovidebothqualitativevisualizationandquan
titativeanalysisoftheembeddingslearnedbyConFit.Wemainly
focusontheIntelliprodatasetasitismorechallenging.
606
ConFit: ImprovingResume-JobMatchingusingDataAugmentationandContrastiveLearning RecSys’24,October14–18,2024,Bari,Italy
5.1 QualitativeAnalysis
ConFitaimstolearnahigh-qualityembeddingspaceforaresume
orajobpost. InFigure3wevisualizetheresumeembeddings
learnedbyConFit.WeuseConFitwithBERT-base(seeTable4)
toembedall1457resumesfromthetestsetintheIntelliprodataset,
andperformdimensionalityreductionusingt-SNE[49].InFigure3,
wefindConFitlearnedtoclusterresumesbasedonimportantfields
suchas“DesiredIndustry”.Webelievethisisconsistentwithhow
ahumanwoulddetermineperson-jobfit,asresumesaimingfor
similarindustriesarelikelytocontainsimilarsetsofexperiences
andskills.Forcomparisonwithembeddingsgeneratedbyother
baselines,pleaseseeSection5.1.
5.2 ErrorAnalysis
ToanalyzetheerrorsmadebyConFit,wemanuallyinspect30
negativeresume-jobpairsfromtherankingtasksthatareincor
rectlyrankedattop5%andisbeforeatleastonepositivepair,and
20pairsfromtheclassificationtaskthatwasincorrectlypredicted
asamatch.Foreachincorrectlyrankedorclassifiedpair,wecom
pareagainstotherpositiveresume-jobpairsfromthedataset,and
categorizetheerrorswiththefollowingcriteria:unsuitable,where
somerequirementsinthejobpostarenotsatisfiedbytheresume;
lesscompetent,wherearesumesatisfiesalljobrequirements,but
manycompetingcandidateshaveahigherdegree/moreexperience;
out-of-scope,wherearesumesatisfiesall requirements,appears
competitivecomparedtoothercandidates,butisstillrejecteddue
toother(e.g.,subjective)reasonsnotpresentedinourresume/job
datathemselves;andpotentiallysuitable,wherearesumefromthe
rankingtaskssatisfiedtherequirementsandseemedcompetent,
buthadnolabelintheoriginaldataset.
WepresentouranalysisinFigure4,andfindthatasignificant
portionoferrorsareout-of-scope,wherewebelieveinformationin
resumes/jobpostsislimited.Thenextmostfrequenterrorisless
competent,whichisunderstandablesinceConFitscoresaresume
jobpairindependentofothercompetingcandidates.Lastly,wealso
findthatabout20%ofthewrongpredictionswereunsuitable,with
resumesnotsatisfyingcertainjobrequirementssuchas“4years+
withDocker,K8s”.Webelieveunsuitableerrorsmaybemitigated
bycombiningConFitwithbetterfeatureengineeringtechniques
alongwithkeyword-basedapproaches(suchasBM25),whichwe
leaveforfuturework.
6 RelatedWork
Person-jobfitsystems. Earlyneural-basedmethodsinperson-job
fit[17]typicallyfocusonnetworkarchitecturetoobtainagoodrep
resentationofajobpostoraresume.ThesemethodsincludeJiang
etal.[23],Mhatreetal.[33],Qinetal.[39],Rezaeipourfarsangiand
Milios[42],Zhuetal.[57],whichexploresarchitecturessuchas
RNN,LSTM[46]andCNN[38].However,thesearesignificantlyout
performedbymorerecentencoder-basednetworkssuchasBERT
[12],whichweuseinourwork.Recentdeeplearningmethods
includeMaheshwaryandMisra[30],RezaeipourfarsangiandMil
ios[42],whichusesdeepsiamesenetworktolearnanembedding
spaceforresume/jobs,Bianetal.[2]whichusesahierarchicalRNN
toimprovedomain-adaptationofperson-jobfitsystems,andZhang
etal.[56]whichusesfederatedlearningtoperformmodeltraining
100 0 100
100
0
100
others
Business Management
Software Engineering
Human Resources
Figure3:VisualizingresumeembeddingsfromConFitus
ingt-SNE.Colorsareassignedusingeachresume’sdesired
industry.Top-3mostfrequentindustriesarecolor-codedfor
easierviewing.
20.0%
28.0%
44.0%
8.0%
unsuitable
potentially suitable
less competent
out-of-scope
Figure4:ConFiterroranalysis.Wefind44%oftheerrors
madeareduetoreasonsnotidentifiableusingresume/job
documentsalone,and28%duetoacandidate’sresumesat
isfyingallthejobrequirementsbutislesscompetentthan
othercompetingcandidates.
whilepreservinguserprivacy.However,asperson-jobfitsystems
involvesensitivedata,mostsystemsdonotopen-sourcedatasetsor
implementations,andareoftenoptimizedforoneparticulardataset.
RecentworkwithpublicimplementationsincludesMV-CoN[1],
whichusesaco-teachingnetwork[31]toperformgradientupdates
basedmodel’sconfidencetodatanoises;InEXIT[45],whichuseshi
erarchicalattentiontomodelresume-jobinteractions;andDPGNN
[55],whichusesagraph-basedapproachwithanovelBPRlossto
optimizeforresume/jobranking.However,thesemethodstendto
focusontask-specificmodifications,suchasassumingnounseen
resumes/jobsattesttimeorassumingaccesstointernaldatasuch
aswhethertherecruitersentprivatemessagestothejobapplicant.
607
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
Yu et al.
The former is unrealistic considering new job seekers/job positions
frequently appear, and the latter is only applicable to specific re
cruitment platforms. ConFit uses contrastive learning and data
augmentation techniques based on powerful pre-trained models
such as BERT[12], and demonstrates its performance and flexibility
by achieving the best scores in almost all ranking and classification
tasks across two different person-job fit datasets.
Information retrieval systems. ConFit benefits from contrastive
learning techniques, which have seen wide applications in many in
formation retrieval and representation learning tasks [8, 40]. Given
a query (e.g., user-generated question), an information retrieval
system aims to find top-k relevant passages from a large reserve
of candidate passages [25, 28]. Popular methods in information re
trieval include BM25[43,48], akeyword-basedapproachusedasthe
baseline in many text ranking tasks [34, 35, 47], and dense retrieval
methods such as Izacard et al. [21], Karpukhin et al. [27], Wang
et al. [51], which uses contrastive learning to obtain high-quality
passage embeddings and typically performs top-k search based
on inner product. To our knowledge, ConFit is the first attempt
to use contrastive learning for person-job fit, achieving the best
performances in almost all person-job ranking tasks across two
different person-job fit datasets.
7 Conclusion
We propose ConFit, a general-purpose approach to model person
job fit. ConFit trains a neural network using contrastive learning
to obtain a high-quality embedding space for resumes and job posts,
and uses data augmentation to alleviate data sparsity in person-job
fit datasets. Despite its simplicity compared to recent best person
job fit systems, we find ConFit achieves the best performance
in almost all ranking and classification tasks across two different
person-job fit datasets. Additionally, ConFit is highly efficient, and
can rank thousands of resumes/jobs in milliseconds using inner
product search algorithms such as FAISS [24]. We believe ConFit is
easily extensible, and can be used as a strong foundation for future
research on person-job fit.
8 Limitations
Recruiter/Job Seeker Preference. ConFit produces dense represen
tations for resumes and jobs independently, and uses inner-product
to score the resume-job pair. While this approach can be easily
combined with retrieval methods such as FAISS [24] to efficiently
rank a large number of resumes/jobs, it ignores certain aspects of
how a real recruiter or a job seeker may choose a resume or a job.
In our error analysis (Section 5.2), we find a significant portion of
incorrectly ranked/rated resume-job pairs could be either due to
subjective choices made by the recruiters, or due to a very compet
itive candidate pool for a certain job position. This suggests that
additionally modeling the recruiter or job seeker’s past preferences
(e.g., using profiling approaches [54] from recommendation sys
tems [13]) may be beneficial, and that developing a scoring metric
that is aware of the other candidates in the pool could also be use
ful. In general, we believe ConFit embeddings would serve as a
foundation for these approaches, and we leave this for future work.
Sensitive Data. To our knowledge, there is no standardized, pub
lic person-job fit dataset6 that can be used to compare performances
of existing systems [1, 39, 45, 55, 57]. This is understandable, as
resume contents contain highly sensitive information and that
large-scale person-job datasets are often proprietary. We provide
our best effort to make ConFit reproducible and extensible for
future work: we will open-source full implementations of ConFit
and all relevant baselines, our data processing scripts, and dummy
train/valid/test data files that can be used test drive our system
end-to-end. We will also privately release our model weights and
full datasets to researchers under appropriate license agreements.
We hope these attempts can make future research in person-job fit
more accessible.
9 Ethical Considerations
ConFit uses pretrained encoders such as BERT and E5 [12, 51],
and it is well-known that many powerful encoders contain biases
[4, 5, 22, 32]. For person-job fit systems, we believe it is crucial
to ensure that the systems do not bias towards certain groups
of people, such as preferring a certain gender for certain jobs. In
this work, we have followed the best practices from prior work
[45, 55] and removed sensitive information such as gender and
ethnicity from the datasets. However, as biases can still exist in
other subtle forms, we do not condone using ConFit for real-world
applications without using debiasing techniques such as Bolukbasi
et al. [3], Cheng et al. [9], Gaci et al. [14], Guo et al. [18], Schick
et al. [44], and in general, we do not condone the use of ConFit
for any morally unjust purposes. To our knowledge, there is little
work on investigating or mitigating biases in existing person-job
fit systems, and we believe this is an important direction for future
work.
A More Details on Model Architecture
In this work, all data (resumes and job posts) are formatted as a
collection of text fields. We simplify the model architecture from
InEXIT [45] to produce a single dense vector for a job post or
a resume. InEXIT first encodes each field independently using a
pre-trained encoder, by encoding the field name (e.g., “education”)
and the value (e.g., “Bachelor; major: Computer Science...) sepa
rately and then concatenating the two representations to obtain
a representation for the entire field. Then, InEXIT models the “in
ternal interaction” between fields from the same document using
a self-attention layer. Next, InEXIT views resume-job matching
as a non-linear interaction between the fields from a resume-job
pair, and uses another self-attention to model the “external inter
action” between all representations from both documents. Finally,
InEXIT merges the representations obtained so far into a dense
vector for a resume/job, concatenates the dense vectors to repre
sent a resume-job pair, and finally uses an MLP layer to produce a
matching score.
Compared to concatenating all text fields into a single string and
using an encoder to directly produce an embedding, this approach
of encoding each text field independently can effectively increase
maximum context length (often 512). For example, we find fields
such as “Experiences” and “Projects” in a resume from the Intellipro
6The AliYun dataset used in this work is no longer publicly available as of 09-11-2023.
608
ConFit: Improving Resume-Job Matching using Data Augmentation and Contrastive Learning
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
dataset often contain long texts. By encoding each field indepen
dently, we can include up to 512 tokens from each field, compared
to 512 tokens in total if the two fields are concatenated. We believe
this is particularly suitable for modeling resume and job posts, as
text fields (i.e., sections) from a resume/job post can be understood
independently of other fields.
Since ConFit models resume-job match using inner product
(compatible with efficient retrieval frameworks such as FAISS [24]),
we propose a few simplifications to InEXIT’s model architecture.
First, since field names(e.g. “education”, “experiences”) are short, we
directly concatenate them with the value to obtain a single string for
each field (e.g., “education: Bachelor in Computer Science, ...”). We
then use a pre-trained encoder to directly obtain a representation
for the entire field. Next, we follow InEXIT to use self-attention
in a transformer layer to model the “internal interaction” between
fields from the same document. After that, as we aim to model a
resume and a job as dense vectors independent of each other, we
remove the self-attention layer and the final MLP layer used to
model a non-linear interaction between a resume-job pair. Instead,
we use a linear layer to merge the representations for each text
field, and output a dense vector for a resume or a job. This can then
be used to perform inner product scoring, and can be combined
with FAISS (see Section 4.6) to rank thousands of documents under
miliseconds.
B More Details on Data Augmentation
In Section 3.1, we discussed how ConFit can increase the number
of resume-job labels by first creating augmented resumes ˆ𝑅𝑖 and
jobs ˆ𝐽𝑖 that carry semantically similar information as 𝑅𝑖 and 𝐽𝑖, and
then replicating the labels from 𝑅𝑖 and 𝐽𝑖 to ˆ𝑅𝑖 and ˆ𝐽𝑖. Since much
information in a resume or a job post contains formal names such
as “Job Title”, we only paraphrase certain sections. For resumes in
the Intellipro dataset, we paraphrase the “description” subsection
in the “Experiences” section and the “description” subsection in the
“Projects” section (see Table A1 in our supplementary material). For
job posts in the Intellipro dataset, we paraphrase the “Company
Description” section, the “Job Description/Responsibilities” section,
the “Required Qualifications/Skills”, and the “Preferred Qualifica
tions/Skills” section (see Table A2 in our supplementary material).
For the AliYun dataset, we paraphrase the “工作经验” (work expe
rience) section for resumes, and the “工作描述” (job description)
section for job posts.
ConFit performs data augmentation using both ChatGPT and
EDA for 500 resumes and 500 jobs for each dataset. With only 1000
augmented documents on each dataset, we increased the number
of resume-job labels by 5330 and 9706 for the Intellipro dataset and
the AliYun dataset, respectively.
C More Details on Dataset and Preprocessing
Please refer to supplementary material for a full appendix.
D More Details on Baselines
Please refer to supplementary material for a full appendix.
E ConFit Training Hyperparameters
Please refer to supplementary material for a full appendix.
F More Details on Runtime Comparison
Please refer to supplementary material for a full appendix.
G More Details on Ablation Studies
Please refer to supplementary material for a full appendix.
References
[1] Shuqing Bian, Xu Chen, Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Yupeng Hou, Yang
Song, Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2020. Learning to Match Jobs with Re
sumes from Sparse Interaction Data using Multi-View Co-Teaching Network.
arXiv:2009.13299 [cs.CL]
[2] Shuqing Bian, Wayne Xin Zhao, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2019.
Domain Adaptation for Person-Job Fit with Transferable Deep Global Match
Network. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu
ral Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), Kentaro Inui, Jing Jiang, Vincent Ng, and
Xiaojun Wan (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong,
China, 4810–4820. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/D19-1487
[3] Tolga Bolukbasi, Kai-Wei Chang, James Zou, Venkatesh Saligrama, and Adam
Kalai. 2016. Man is to Computer Programmer as Woman is to Homemaker?
Debiasing Word Embeddings. arXiv:1607.06520 [cs.CL]
[4] Marc-Etienne Brunet, Colleen Alkalay-Houlihan, Ashton Anderson, and Richard
Zemel. 2019. Understanding the Origins of Bias in Word Embeddings. In Pro
ceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning (Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, Vol. 97), Kamalika Chaudhuri and Ruslan Salakhutdi
nov (Eds.). PMLR, 803–811. https://proceedings.mlr.press/v97/brunet19a.html
[5] Aylin Caliskan, Pimparkar Parth Ajay, Tessa Charlesworth, Robert Wolfe, and
Mahzarin R. Banaji. 2022. Gender Bias in Word Embeddings: A Comprehen
sive Analysis of Frequency, Syntax, and Semantics. In Proceedings of the 2022
AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society (AIES ’22). ACM. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3514094.3534162
[6] Jan Cegin, Jakub Simko, and Peter Brusilovsky. 2023. ChatGPT to Replace Crowd
sourcing of Paraphrases for Intent Classification: Higher Diversity and Compara
ble Model Robustness. arXiv:2305.12947 [cs.CL]
[7] Tianqi Chen and Carlos Guestrin. 2016. XGBoost: A Scalable Tree Boosting
System. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD ’16). ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/
2939672.2939785
[8] Ting Chen, Simon Kornblith, Mohammad Norouzi, and Geoffrey Hinton. 2020.
A Simple Framework for Contrastive Learning of Visual Representations.
arXiv:2002.05709 [cs.LG]
[9] Pengyu Cheng, Weituo Hao, Siyang Yuan, Shijing Si, and Lawrence Carin. 2021.
FairFil: Contrastive Neural Debiasing Method for Pretrained Text Encoders.
arXiv:2103.06413 [cs.CL]
[10] Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal, Vishrav Chaudhary, Guil
laume Wenzek, Francisco Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Unsupervised Cross-lingual Representa
tion Learning at Scale. CoRR abs/1911.02116 (2019). arXiv:1911.02116 http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1911.02116
[11] Haixing Dai, Zhengliang Liu, Wenxiong Liao, Xiaoke Huang, Yihan Cao, Zihao
Wu, Lin Zhao, Shaochen Xu, Wei Liu, Ninghao Liu, Sheng Li, Dajiang Zhu,
Hongmin Cai, Lichao Sun, Quanzheng Li, Dinggang Shen, Tianming Liu, and
Xiang Li. 2023. AugGPT: Leveraging ChatGPT for Text Data Augmentation.
arXiv:2302.13007 [cs.CL]
[12] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding.
arXiv:1810.04805 [cs.CL]
[13] Sherin Eliyas and P Ranjana. 2022. Recommendation Systems: Content-Based
Filtering vs Collaborative Filtering. In 2022 2nd International Conference on Ad
vance Computing and Innovative Technologies in Engineering (ICACITE). IEEE,
1360–1365.
[14] Yacine Gaci, Boualem Benatallah, Fabio Casati, and Khalid Benabdeslem. 2022.
Debiasing Pretrained Text Encoders by Paying Attention to Paying Attention.
In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, Yoav Goldberg, Zornitsa Kozareva, and Yue Zhang (Eds.). Association
for Computational Linguistics, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, 9582–9602.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.emnlp-main.651
[15] Tianyu Gao, Xingcheng Yao, and Danqi Chen. 2021. SimCSE: Simple Contrastive
Learning of Sentence Embeddings. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Em
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Marie-Francine Moens, Xuanjing
Huang, Lucia Specia, and Scott Wen-tau Yih (Eds.). Association for Compu
tational Linguistics, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 6894–6910.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.552
609
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
Yu et al.
[16] Daniel Gillick, Sayali Kulkarni, Larry Lansing, Alessandro Presta, Jason Baldridge,
Eugene Ie, and Diego Garcia-Olano. 2019. Learning Dense Representations
for Entity Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 23rd Conference on Computational
Natural Language Learning (CoNLL), Mohit Bansal and Aline Villavicencio (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 528–537. https:
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/K19-1049
[17] Shiqiang Guo, Folami Alamudun, and Tracy Hammond. 2016. RésuMatcher: A
personalized résumé-job matching system. Expert Systems with Applications 60
(2016), 169–182. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2016.04.013
[18] Yue Guo, Yi Yang, and Ahmed Abbasi. 2022. Auto-Debias: Debiasing Masked
Language Models with Automated Biased Prompts. In Proceedings of the 60th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), Smaranda Muresan, Preslav Nakov, and Aline Villavicencio (Eds.). As
sociation for Computational Linguistics, Dublin, Ireland, 1012–1023. https:
//doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.72
[19] Bo Han, Quanming Yao, Xingrui Yu, Gang Niu, Miao Xu, Weihua Hu, Ivor Tsang,
and Masashi Sugiyama. 2018. Co-teaching: Robust Training of Deep Neural
Networks with Extremely Noisy Labels. arXiv:1804.06872 [cs.LG]
[20] Mansoor Iqbal. 2023. LinkedIn Usage and Revenue Statistics (2023). a. https:
//www.businessofapps.com/data/linkedin-statistics/ Accessed: 2023-12-29.
[21] Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebastian Riedel, Piotr Bo
janowski, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2021. Unsupervised Dense Infor
mation Retrieval with Contrastive Learning. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.
2112.09118
[22] Sophie Jentzsch and Cigdem Turan. 2022. Gender Bias in BERT- Measuring and
Analysing Biases through Sentiment Rating in a Realistic Downstream Classifica
tion Task. In Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Gender Bias in Natural Language
Processing (GeBNLP), Christian Hardmeier, Christine Basta, Marta R. Costa-jussà,
Gabriel Stanovsky, and Hila Gonen (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguis
tics, Seattle, Washington, 184–199. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.gebnlp-1.20
[23] Junshu Jiang, Songyun Ye, Wei Wang, Jingran Xu, and Xiaosheng Luo. 2020.
Learning Effective Representations for Person-Job Fit by Feature Fusion.
arXiv:2006.07017 [cs.IR]
[24] Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019. Billion-scale similarity
search with GPUs. IEEE Transactions on Big Data 7, 3 (2019), 535–547.
[25] MandarJoshi,EunsolChoi,DanielS.Weld,andLukeZettlemoyer.2017. TriviaQA:
A Large Scale Distantly Supervised Challenge Dataset for Reading Comprehen
sion. arXiv:1705.03551 [cs.CL]
[26] Ehsan Kamalloo, Nandan Thakur, Carlos Lassance, Xueguang Ma, Jheng-Hong
Yang, and Jimmy Lin. 2023. Resources for Brewing BEIR: Reproducible Reference
Models and an Official Leaderboard. arXiv:2306.07471 [cs.IR]
[27] Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oğuz, Sewon Min, Patrick Lewis, Ledell Wu, Sergey
Edunov, Danqi Chen, and Wen tau Yih. 2020. Dense Passage Retrieval for Open
Domain Question Answering. arXiv:2004.04906 [cs.CL]
[28] Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur
Parikh, Chris Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Matthew Kelcey, Jacob
Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina N. Toutanova, Llion Jones, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew
Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov. 2019. Natural Questions: a
Benchmark for Question Answering Research. Transactions of the Association of
Computational Linguistics (2019).
[29] Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. RoBERTa: A
Robustly Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach. arXiv:1907.11692 [cs.CL]
[30] Saket Maheshwary and Hemant Misra. 2018. Matching Resumes to Jobs via Deep
Siamese Network. Companion Proceedings of the The Web Conference 2018 (2018).
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:13807085
[31] Eran Malach and Shai Shalev-Shwartz. 2018. Decoupling "when to update" from
"how to update". arXiv:1706.02613 [cs.LG]
[32] Chandler May, Alex Wang, Shikha Bordia, Samuel R. Bowman, and Rachel
Rudinger. 2019. On Measuring Social Biases in Sentence Encoders. In Pro
ceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Associ
ation for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1
(Long and Short Papers), Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio (Eds.).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 622–628.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/N19-1063
[33] Sonali Mhatre, Bhawana Dakhare, Vaibhav Ankolekar, Neha Chogale, Rutuja
Navghane, and Pooja Gotarne. 2023. Resume Screening and Ranking using
Convolutional Neural Network. In 2023 International Conference on Sustain
able Computing and Smart Systems (ICSCSS). 412–419. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICSCSS57650.2023.10169716
[34] Niklas Muennighoff, Nouamane Tazi, Loïc Magne, and Nils Reimers. 2022. MTEB:
Massive Text Embedding Benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.07316 (2022).
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2210.07316
[35] Tri Nguyen, Mir Rosenberg, Xia Song, Jianfeng Gao, Saurabh Tiwary, Rangan
Majumder, and Li Deng. 2016. MS MARCO: A Human Generated MAchine
Reading COmprehension Dataset. CoRR abs/1611.09268 (2016). arXiv:1611.09268
http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09268
[36] OpenAI. 2022. New and improved embedding model. https://openai.com/blog/
new-and-improved-embedding-model
[37] OpenAI. 2022. OpenAI: Introducing ChatGPT. https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt
[38] Keiron O’Shea and Ryan Nash. 2015. An Introduction to Convolutional Neural
Networks. arXiv:1511.08458 [cs.NE]
[39] Chuan Qin, Hengshu Zhu, Tong Xu, Chen Zhu, Liang Jiang, Enhong Chen,
and Hui Xiong. 2018. Enhancing Person-Job Fit for Talent Recruitment: An
Ability-Aware Neural Network Approach. In The 41st International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research & Development in Information Retrieval (Ann Arbor, MI,
USA) (SIGIR ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
25–34. https://doi.org/10.1145/3209978.3210025
[40] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh,
Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learning Transferable Visual Models
From Natural Language Supervision. arXiv:2103.00020 [cs.CV]
[41] Steffen Rendle, Christoph Freudenthaler, Zeno Gantner, and Lars Schmidt
Thieme. 2012. BPR: Bayesian Personalized Ranking from Implicit Feedback.
arXiv:1205.2618 [cs.IR]
[42] Sima Rezaeipourfarsangi and Evangelos E. Milios. 2023. AI-Powered Resume-Job
Matching: A Document Ranking Approach Using Deep Neural Networks. In
Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Document Engineering 2023 (Limerick,
Ireland) (DocEng ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
Article 22, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3573128.3609347
[43] Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. 2009. The Probabilistic Relevance
Framework: BM25 and Beyond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr. 3, 4 (apr 2009), 333–389.
https://doi.org/10.1561/1500000019
[44] Timo Schick, Sahana Udupa, and Hinrich Schütze. 2021. Self-Diagnosis and
Self-Debiasing: A Proposal for Reducing Corpus-Based Bias in NLP. Transactions
of the Association for Computational Linguistics 9 (2021), 1408–1424. https:
//doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00434
[45] Taihua Shao, Chengyu Song, Jianming Zheng, Fei Cai, and Honghui Chen. 2023.
Exploring Internal and External Interactions for Semi-Structured Multivariate
Attributes in Job-Resume Matching. In International Journal of Intelligent Systems.
https://doi.org/10.1155/2023/2994779
[46] Ralf C. Staudemeyer and Eric Rothstein Morris. 2019. Understanding LSTM– a tutorial into Long Short-Term Memory Recurrent Neural Networks.
arXiv:1909.09586 [cs.NE]
[47] Nandan Thakur, Nils Reimers, Andreas Rücklé, Abhishek Srivastava, and Iryna
Gurevych. 2021. BEIR: A Heterogenous Benchmark for Zero-shot Evaluation of
Information Retrieval Models. arXiv:2104.08663 [cs.IR]
[48] AndrewTrotman,AnttiPuurula,andBlakeBurgess.2014. ImprovementstoBM25
and Language Models Examined.InProceedingsofthe19thAustralasian Document
Computing Symposium (Melbourne, VIC, Australia) (ADCS ’14). Association for
Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 58–65. https://doi.org/10.1145/
2682862.2682863
[49] Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton. 2008. Visualizing Data using
t-SNE. Journal of Machine Learning Research 9, 86 (2008), 2579–2605. http:
//jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html
[50] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2023. Attention Is All
You Need. arXiv:1706.03762 [cs.CL]
[51] Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang,
Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei. 2022. Text Embeddings by Weakly-Supervised
Contrastive Pre-training. arXiv:2212.03533 [cs.CL]
[52] Liang Wang, Nan Yang, Xiaolong Huang, Binxing Jiao, Linjun Yang, Daxin Jiang,
Rangan Majumder, and Furu Wei. 2023. SimLM: Pre-training with Representa
tion Bottleneck for Dense Passage Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Pa
pers). Association for Computational Linguistics, Toronto, Canada, 2244–2258.
https://aclanthology.org/2023.acl-long.125
[53] Jason Wei and Kai Zou. 2019. EDA: Easy Data Augmentation Techniques for
Boosting Performance on Text Classification Tasks. In Proceedings of the 2019
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP).
Association for Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong, China, 6383–6389. https:
//www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1670
[54] Rui Yan, Ran Le, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Xiangliang Zhang, and Dongyan Zhao.
2019. Interview Choice Reveals Your Preference on the Market: To Improve
Job-Resume Matching through Profiling Memories. In Proceedings of the 25th
ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining
(Anchorage, AK, USA) (KDD ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 914–922. https://doi.org/10.1145/3292500.3330963
[55] Chen Yang, Yupeng Hou, Yang Song, Tao Zhang, Ji-Rong Wen, and Wayne Xin
Zhao. 2022. Modeling Two-Way Selection Preference for Person-Job Fit. In
RecSys.
[56] Yunchong Zhang, Baisong Liu, and Jiangbo Qian. 2023. FedPJF: federated con
trastive learning for privacy-preserving person-job fit. Applied Intelligence 53
(2023), 27060– 27071. https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:261454666
610
ConFit: Improving Resume-Job Matching using Data Augmentation and Contrastive Learning
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
[57] Chen Zhu, Hengshu Zhu, Hui Xiong, Chao Ma, Fang Xie, Pengliang Ding, and
Pan Li. 2018. Person-Job Fit: Adapting the Right Talent for the Right Job with
Joint Representation Learning. arXiv:1810.04040 [cs.IR]
611
DevFlair: A Framework to Automate the Pre
screening Process of Software Engineering Job 
Candidates 
R.T.R Jayasekara  
Department of Computer Science and 
Software Engineering 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
it19129204@my.sliit.lk 
K.A.N.D Kudarachchi 
Department of Computer Science and 
Software Engineering 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
it19121352@my.sliit.lk 
K.G.S.S.K Kariyawasam 
Department of Computer Science and 
Software Engineering 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
it19147024@my.sliit.lk 
Dilini Rajapaksha 
School of Computing Technologies 
Royal Melbourne Institute of 
Technology 
Melbourne, Australia 
dilini.rajapaksha@rmit.edu.au
Abstract— The HR department of a technology company 
receives hundreds of job applications for each Software 
Engineering related vacancy. Evaluating a candidate by looking 
at the curriculum vitae may appear to be easy during the pre
screening process. However, an automated pre-screening 
process using Natural Language Processing and Machine 
Learning methodologies would help the recruiter to obtain a 
more accurate and deeper understanding of the candidate. In 
this paper we propose “DevFlair”, a framework to automate 
pre-screening Software Engineering job candidates. DevFlair 
uses data from social media, GitHub, and open-ended 
questionnaires to predict the Big-Five personality traits, analyze 
technical skill expertise, and analyze the experience in using 
industry-related online platforms. After analysis, the candidates 
are ranked according to their personality and technical skill 
levels. We conduct the personality prediction experiments using 
a social media posts dataset annotated with gold-standard Big
Five personality labels. We train FastText classification models 
and compare their accuracy against other state of the art 
classification models. The comparisons conclude that the 
FastText classification models substantially outperform the 
state of the art classification models when predicting Openness, 
Conscientiousness, and Agreeableness personality traits. 
S.L Jayasinghe 
Department of Computer Science and 
Software Engineering 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
it19126234@my.sliit.lk 
Samantha Thelijjagoda 
SLIIT Business School 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
samantha.t@sliit.lk
communication issues and conflicts between teams, which 
will result in not achieving project milestones effectively [3]. 
Identifying the technical skills of a candidate may seem easy 
by solely depending on their curriculum vitae (CV) or even 
going through their LinkedIn profile. However, the 
information about technical skills mentioned in the CV or 
posted on LinkedIn can be inaccurate, out of date, and 
subjective [4]. Currently available pre-screening tools use 
assessment based personality prediction methodologies. A 
meta-analysis and a theoretical model designed by Salgado 
explain the limitations of these types of assessments and how 
the assessments can be biased due to the distortion of 
responses by the candidates [5]. Furthermore, these tools do 
not consider the candidates' experience in using online 
platforms such as GitHub, which are essential in the field of 
Software Engineering. 
Keywords—Pre-screening, Human Resources, Personality 
Prediction, Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In any company, people are the most important asset, and 
it is only through the efforts of people that other resources and 
raw materials can be transformed into achievement, and the 
company can succeed. Therefore, recruiting the right people 
becomes a critical activity in every company [1]. The United 
States Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that the employment 
of software developers will grow by 22% from 2020 to 2030, 
much faster than the average of 8% for all occupations [2]. 
This means that the already high competitiveness in the 
Software Engineering job market will be significantly higher. 
When we consider an ideal candidate for a certain position, 
specifically one related to software development, the 
candidate must fulfill the job requirements while having a 
personality that is suitable for the field. Personality can 
influence group processes and decision-making. Having 
people with unsuitable personalities would cause 
There have been multiple studies on predicting one's 
personality with social media profile data [6]. Research 
conducted by Piedboeuf et al. proposes two models to predict 
personality based on DiSC and MBTI personality models with 
LinkedIn profile data [7]. They use two datasets that contain 
LinkedIn profiles with DiSC and MBTI personality test results 
and trained SVM, Random Forest, and simple Naïve Bayes 
classifiers, which are then compared based on precision. The 
proposed models can achieve 73.7% to 80.5% of precision on 
the DiSC personality model and 80.7% to 86.2% of precision 
on the MBTI personality model. Bhardwaj et al. use a range 
of divergent features of Facebook and LinkedIn social 
networks, both separately and collectively to determine 
personality with the Big-Five model [8]. This study is 
conducted to achieve the objective of reducing error by 
incorporating data gathered from multiple Online Social 
Networks. They use Facebook features such as the number of 
likes, number of friends, number of posts, and LinkedIn 
features such as the number of connections, number of skills, 
and number of positive and negative words as the data. They 
argue that there exists a significant relationship between the 
Facebook and LinkedIn features and the big five personality 
traits. However, they differ in the pattern of usage and level of 
effectiveness. The research concludes that the accuracy of 
personality assessment results (for four traits: openness, 
conscientiousness, agreeableness, and neuroticism) improves 
when both Facebook and LinkedIn features are used together. 
979-8-3503-9809-0/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 
In the case of extroversion, it is assessed more accurately with 
LinkedIn features alone. 
In this study, our objective is to propose a system that can 
be used by recruiters to predict the Big Five personality traits 
of candidates by analyzing social media profiles. Moreover, 
recruiters can analyze candidate activities on GitHub, and use 
open-ended questionnaires to analyze technical skills, thereby 
helping the recruiter to obtain a more accurate and deeper 
understanding of the candidate's personality traits and 
technical skill sets. In this study, we compare different Natural 
Language Processing and machine learning approaches for 
predicting one's personality with social media data. We used 
the FastText library, which has very limited studies in the 
context of personality analysis with social media data, to train 
classification models. With the FastText models, we achieve 
significantly better results when predicting Openness, 
Conscientiousness, and Agreeableness personality traits than 
state of the art algorithms. Further, we analyze the technical 
skill questionnaire answers by calculating the similarity 
between candidate answers and the predefined model answers. 
Even though the current pre-screening tools do not consider 
candidate activities in online platforms, we believe that a 
candidate who has experience in using online platforms such 
as GitHub should be recognized during the pre-screening 
process. Therefore, we implement a scoring system using the 
data taken from the GitHub profiles and finally implement a 
ranking system to rank the candidates, considering both 
personality and technical skill aspects. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II 
discusses some important concepts and definitions that will be 
considered in this manuscript. Section III describes the high
level architecture of the proposed framework. Section IV 
discusses the experiments and the results. Section V discusses 
the limitations of the current study and possible future work. 
Finally, section VI draws the conclusions. 
II. BACKGROUND 
A. The Big-Five Model 
Many modern and traditional studies in psychology point 
to five basic dimensions of personality. Evidence of this 
theory has grown over the years, with the principal theory 
emerging in 1949 [9]. The big-five personality traits 
assessment model is considered the most extensively used 
personality assessment model in the domain of software 
engineering [4]. The theory states that personality can be 
boiled down to five core factors, known by the acronym 
OCEAN: Openness (OPN), Conscientiousness (CON), 
Extraversion (EXT), Agreeableness (AGR), and Neuroticism 
(NEU). 
According to Stephen P. and Timothy A. [10], 
conscientiousness has the biggest impact on job performance. 
Employees with high conscientiousness are knowledgeable 
and have the aspects of a strong leader. Employees with 
higher neuroticism tend toward burnout. Extroverts are 
employees who are willing to take responsibility. Employees 
who are open are supportive of workplace changes and are 
more adaptable. Agreeable employees obey the rules and 
demonstrate higher job satisfaction. 
B. FastText 
FastText is a free and open source library developed by 
Meta’s (formerly Facebook’s) AI Research Team that can be 
used for efficient text classification and representation 
learning. FastText is written in C++ and supports 
multiprocessing during training. FastText supports training 
continuous bag of words (CBOW) or skip-gram models using 
negative sampling, softmax, or hierarchical softmax loss 
functions. According to Meta’s AI Research Team, FastText 
performs efficiently for word representations and sentence 
classification, especially in the case of rare words by making 
use of character level information [11]. 
C. Euclidean Distance 
Euclidean Distance is the separation along a straight line 
between two places. The Pythagorean Theorem is utilized in 
this distance approach. Euclidean distance is the most 
frequently used distance computation method [12]. The 
Euclidean distance between (x1,y1) and (x2,y2) points can be 
calculated as in (1). 
Distance = x1 - x2 2 + y1
 - y2
2
III. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
(1) 
Fig. 1 illustrates the high level architecture of our proposed 
framework. The Python implementation of our DevFlair 
framework is available online on GitHub [13]. Considering 
that the major objective is to identify Big-Five personality 
traits and technical skills of Software Engineering job 
candidates, a framework was built, which could be broken 
down into four major components as follows. 
A. Predicting Personality Traits of Candidates (Personality 
Prediction Model - PPM) 
Several studies have highlighted the significant correlation 
between personality and spoken or written linguistic cues [14] 
[15]. PPM predicts the Big Five personality traits of a job 
candidate using the data taken from the respective candidate’s 
LinkedIn profile. 
PPM consists of three major components. As shown in fig. 
1, they are profile detail extractor, preprocessor, and predictor. 
The profile detail extractor is connected to the ProxyCurl 
LinkedIn API. ProxyCurl is a third-party paid API service that 
we use to retrieve candidate profile details such as the 
“Headline” and the “About” sections. We have to use a third
party API service since LinkedIn only provides API support 
for organizations. The preprocessor contains the text 
normalizer, sentiment intensity analyzer, and pre-trained 
Doc2Vec models. The text normalizer normalizes the text data 
output from the profile detail extractor. The sentiment 
intensity analyzer takes in the normalized text output from the 
text normalizer and outputs a dictionary of negative, neutral, 
positive, and compound sentiment scores. The Doc2Vec 
model takes in the normalized text output from the text 
normalizer and outputs a vectorized representation of the 
string. The predictor contains the five models for predicting 
each Big-Five trait. Refer the subtopic B of section IV for a 
detailed overview of the models. Moreover, since we are using 
the outputs of the PPM for ranking the candidates, we consider 
obtaining more in-depth scores to easily differentiate them, 
rather than negative and positive labels. Therefore in the 
predictor, we extend our binary classification models to obtain 
Fig. 1. DevFlair high-level architecture 
the probability values. Since the five probabilities that we 
calculate with the models are non-dependent, we calculate a 
compound probability for a candidate’s personality as follows. 
pCom = pOPN + pCON + pEXT + pAGR + (1 - pNEU)  (2) 
As in (2), to calculate the compound probability (pCom), 
we calculate the sum of the probabilities of having openness 
(pOPN), conscientiousness (pCON), extraversion (pEXT), 
and agreeableness (pAGR). According to the studies done on 
correlating job success to personality traits, only neuroticism 
is negatively correlated with job performance [16]. As a 
result, we compute the probability that the candidate does not 
possess the neuroticism personality trait. 
B. Evaluating the Technical Skills of Candidates (Technical 
Skills Recognition Model - TSRM) 
The main objective of this component is to implement a 
model to assess the technical skills of Software Engineering 
job candidates with a questionnaire. Each questionnaire is 
focused on assessing one technical skill such as Java, 
JavaScript, and Python. The questionnaire includes 20 
technical questions, and the candidate receives 3 minutes to 
provide an answer for each question. The time limitation will 
restrict the candidate from spending time on external 
knowledge sources. Each candidate who completes the 
questionnaire will receive a final score based on the answers 
they provide. The questions and the model answers are saved 
in the database. After the candidate has completed all the 
questions, the answers will be compared to the model 
answers, and the sentence similarity between the model 
answers and the candidate's answers will be determined. We 
use Doc2Vec models to get vectorized representations of the 
model answer (A) and the candidate’s answer (B). Then, as 
in (3), we calculate the cosine similarity of the two vectors to 
determine the sentence similarity. 
Cosine similarity = cosθ = A.B
|A| ||B||
(3) 
Fig. 2. Example model question and answer 
Fig. 3. Example candidate answer 
Fig. 4. Similarity score for the example 
After calculating all the similarity scores, we get the average 
score and output it as the technical skill score. 
C. Analyzing Online Platform Usage of Candidates 
(Technical Skill Usage Analysis Model - TSUAM) 
In the TSUAM model, we use GitHub to analyze the 
experience in using online platforms by the considered 
candidate. GitHub is one of the most essential online 
platforms in the field of Software Engineering. Therefore, 
finding out a candidate's proficiency with these platforms is 
crucial. Additionally, a recruiter could be examining how a 
candidate uses their technical skills via online platforms 
before interviewing. This component's input is the 
candidate’s GitHub username, and the outputs are the 
calculated points for each technical skill. We use the public 
API from GitHub to obtain the candidate’s technical skill
based data. We use several calculating strategies in this model 
to determine the usage of technical skills. First, we categorize 
the API responses based on technical skills. Afterward, we 
determine the overall technical skill usage percentages and 
filter the necessary technical skills chosen by the recruiter. 
Then we calculate the points obtained by a candidate 
according to skill usage percentage values. 
Fig 5 depicts a sample of percentages of technical skill 
usage across GitHub. A candidate receives scores based on 
his technical skill usage of GitHub after percentages are 
translated into 4 decimal places to create skill usage points. 
Fig. 5 Technical skill usage of a candidate as percentages 
The above percentages of the usage of different technical 
skills are calculated for each candidate separately. Hence, it 
is unable to use these percentage points when comparing two 
candidates. In other terms, the above method does not capture 
the amount of work the candidate has done. Therefore, we use 
(4) to add extra points to the above calculated points 
considering the number of repositories. 
Extra points = [Number of repositories / 10]  (4) 
Fig. 6. Updated points after considering the repository count 
personality score, and “Pt” represents the candidate’s actual 
personality score. In (7), “Sc” represents the final compound 
skill score, “b” represents the priority coefficient for the 
actual compound skill score, and “St” represents the 
candidate’s actual compound skill score. The “a” and “b” 
values are selected by the recruiter as a filtering option in the 
front end. For example, let us assume we have two candidates 
named A and B. Candidate A has 80% as the personality 
score and 50% as the compound technical skill score. 
Candidate B has a 30% personality score and a 90% 
compound technical skill score. As illustrated in fig. 7, in the 
general scenario candidate A will be ranked higher than B, 
even though B has a much higher compound technical skill 
score than A.  
For example, for every ten repositories, we add 1 extra 
point, as in Fig 6. The number of decimal points for skill 
points can be raised to improve accuracy in results. 
D. Ranking Candidates Based on Personality and Technical 
Skills (Ranking and Recommendation Model - RRM) 
The main purpose of this subcomponent is to implement 
a ranking system to identify the best candidates considering 
both personality and technical skills aspects. Currently, most 
companies follow the traditional recruiting process with more 
humans involved, but the proposed framework in this paper 
uses distance measures to rank candidates considering their 
technical skill scores and personality scores. We acquire the 
personality scores from PPM, the technical skill scores from 
TSRM, and the online platform usage scores from TSUAM.    
St = ( xSr + ySu)     (5) 
Equation (5) represents how we calculate the technical 
skill compound score. St represents the technical skill 
compound score, x represents the priority coefficient for the 
candidate’s technical skill questionnaire score, which we 
assigned as 0.7, y represents the priority coefficient for online 
platform usage score, which we assigned as 0.3, Sr represents 
technical skill questionnaire score, Su represents online 
platform usage Score. The reason for the lower priority for 
the online platform usage score is that the candidate's 
understanding of the technical skills should be more 
necessary than the experience with online platforms. 
Pc = a * Pt    (6) 
Sc = b * St    (7) 
Equations (6) and (7) explain how we calculate the final 
compound scores for personality and technical skills. These 
two compound scores are then used in ranking the candidates. 
In (6), “Pc” represents the final compound personality score, 
“a” represents the priority coefficient for the actual 
Fig. 7. A, B points without priority coefficients 
The reason is here the effect of both personality score and 
compound technical skill score are the same (50%) when 
ranking candidates. In contrast to the general scenario to 
prioritize the skills more robustly in our framework, we have 
allowed the recruiter to customize the priorities of the above 
two scores. The variables “a” and “b” represent these priority 
coefficients. 
Fig. 8. A, B points with priority coefficients (b>a) 
Fig. 8 illustrates how the ranking of the two candidates 
changes when the recruiter gives higher priority (75%) to the 
compound technical skill score. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
A. Dataset 
When implementing the PPM, we prepare the corpus with 
the help of a dataset that is provided in the context of a shared 
task [17]. This shared task provides two datasets. One of them 
consists of Facebook profile data annotated with gold
standard Big-Five personality labels. Out of 8 participants in 
the shared task, three used this dataset with Support Vector 
Machines, Logistic Regression, and Naïve Bayes algorithms 
and used lexical resources and social and demographic 
information for classifications. The corpus for our study 
consists of approximately 10,000 Facebook status updates 
from 250 users annotated with gold-standard binary labels for 
each Big-Five personality trait. For training data and testing 
data, we split the corpus into a 3:1 ratio. 
B. Benchmark Models 
      We use two preprocessing approaches: with NLTK 
VADER Sentiment Intensity Analyzer (SIA) and with 
Doc2Vec library. Refer to subtopic A of section III for an 
overview of preprocessing.  With those two preprocessing 
methods, we use five different classification algorithms: 
Logistic Regression (LR), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), 
Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and 
Gaussian Naïve Bayes (GNB). In addition, we use the 
fastText library, to implement five models for predicting the 
Big-Five traits. 
C. Hyperparameter Tuning 
      Since manually finding optimal values for the 
hyperparameters of the models can be cumbersome, we use 
the GridSearchCV cross-validation function of the Scikit
learn Library for hyperparameter optimization except for the 
fastText supervised models. For FastText, we use its 
“autotune” feature to identify the best parameters. In addition, 
for KNN models, we use the elbow method to identify the 
optimal number of nearest neighbors, which is represented by 
the “n_neighbors” hyperparameter. Table VI showcases the 
identified hyperparameters. 
D. Results 
      After training the personality prediction models, we 
evaluate precision, recall, and accuracy. Then for simplicity, 
we use the accuracy metric to compare the models by getting 
the ratio of the number of correct predictions to the total 
number of predictions. We use (8) to calculate the accuracy 
values of each model for the five personality traits, which are 
showcased in Tables I-V. 
Accuracy =correct number of predictions
total number of predictions
     (8) 
TABLE I. ACCURACY COMPARISON FOR “OPENNESS” TRAIT 
 LR KNN RF SVM GNB 
SIA 0.735 0.735 0.734 0.735 0.735 
Doc2Vec 0.759 0.744 0.742 0.744 0.705 
FastText 0.892 
 
TABLE II. ACCURACY COMPARISON FOR 
“CONSCIENTIOUSNESS” TRAIT 
 LR KNN RF SVM GNB 
SIA 0.548 0.546 0.541 0.549 0.549 
Doc2Vec 0.544 0.535 0.532 0.534 0.509 
FastText 0.874 
 
TABLE III. ACCURACY COMPARISON FOR “EXTRAVERSION” 
TRAIT 
 LR KNN RF SVM GNB 
SIA 0.595 0.596 0.591 0.597 0.596 
Doc2Vec 0.569 0.575 0.565 0.575 0.552 
FastText 0.576 
 
TABLE IV. ACCURACY COMPARISON FOR “AGREEABLENESS” 
TRAIT 
 LR KNN RF SVM GNB 
SIA 0.530 0.526 0.509 0.526 0.530 
Doc2Vec 0.552 0.519 0.536 0.534 0.514 
FastText 0.869 
 
TABLE V. ACCURACY COMPARISON FOR “NEUROTICISM” 
TRAIT 
 LR KNN RF SVM GNB 
SIA 0.616 0.616 0.608 0.616 0.616 
Doc2Vec 0.6345 0.6349 0.620 0.622 0.615 
FastText 0.626 
After the comparison, we identify the most accurate model 
for predicting each Big-Five personality trait as follows. 
• Openness – FastText model (accuracy = 0.892) 
• Conscientiousness – FastText model (accuracy = 
0.874) 
• Extraversion - SVM model with NLTK VADER 
Sentiment Intensity Analyzer (accuracy = 0.597) 
• Agreeableness – FastText model (accuracy = 0.869) 
• Neuroticism - KNN model with Doc2Vec model 
(accuracy = 0.6349) 
Table VI showcases the hyperparameter value grids we use 
for cross-validation and the identified best hyperparameter 
values of the most accurate model for predicting each 
personality trait. 
TABLE VI. BEST HYPERPARAMETERS OF THE 5 MODELS WITH 
THE HIGHEST ACCURACY FOR EACH TRAIT 
Trait Hyperparameter grid Best 
hyperparameters 
OPN FastText does not 
require a 
hyperparameter grid 
{'lr': 0.05 
'lrUpdateRate': 100 
'dim': 96 
'ws': 5 
'epoch': 67 
'neg': 5 
'loss': 'softmax' 
'thread': 12 } 
CON FastText does not 
require a 
hyperparameter grid 
{'lr': 0.05 
'lrUpdateRate': 100 
'dim': 77 
'ws': 5 
'epoch': 39 
'neg': 5 
'loss': 'softmax' 
'thread': 12 } 
EXT {'C': [0.1,1, 10, 100, 
1000], 
    'gamma': [1, 0.1, 0.01, 
0.001, 0.0001], 
    'kernel': ['rbf', 'poly', 
'sigmoid']} 
{'C': 1000, 'gamma': 
1, 'kernel': 'rbf'} 
AGR FastText does not 
require a 
hyperparameter grid 
{'lr': 0.05 
'lrUpdateRate': 100 
'dim': 171 
'ws': 5 
'epoch': 100 
NEU {'leaf_size': list(range(1, 
30)), 
'p': [1, 2], 
'weights': ['uniform', 
'distance'], 
'metric': ['minkowski', 
'euclidean', 
'manhattan']} 
'neg': 5 
'loss': 'softmax' 
'thread': 12 } 
{'leaf_size': 
6, 
'metric': 'minkowski', 
'weights': 
'uniform', 
'p': 1, 'n_neighbors': 
100} 
V. LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
Although the DevFlair framework enables recruiters to 
select candidates effortlessly, it certainly has limitations. 
When implementing the PPM, there was no publicly 
available dataset with LinkedIn data, and LinkedIn Terms of 
Service prohibited scraping user profile data to create a 
dataset. In this work, we use a dataset that contains Facebook 
status updates with gold standard personality annotations, 
and we believe the overall accuracy of the PPM could be 
improved with data from other social media platforms such 
as Twitter due to the difference in the dialect of the language. 
Moreover, in the scope of this research and the initial phase 
of the framework, we have considered only one job role, 
which is the Software Engineer. In the future, the framework 
can be extended to evaluate every Software Engineering 
related job role, from a Junior/Associate Software Engineer 
to a Tech Lead. Also, the framework can be further extended 
to evaluate the personality and skills of the job candidates in 
other domains such as Sales, Medicine, and Law. However, 
we will have to incorporate resource persons with relevant 
domain knowledge to implement and integrate more 
components to the framework to assess domain-specific 
expertise based on the domain-specific posts shared by the 
candidates and incorporate domain-specific websites for the 
data extraction. For this phase, we only obtain data from 
GitHub for analysis. In the future, the framework can be 
extended to analyze data from more platforms, like GitLab, 
Bitbucket, and Stack Overflow. For this research scope, we 
evaluate only three technical skills: Java, JavaScript, and 
Python. In the future, the framework can be extended to 
evaluate other technical skills. This framework can be further 
improved by integrating another subcomponent to scan the 
CVs of candidates to extract data which will aid in further 
automation. For example, the recruiter can simply upload a 
CV and this subcomponent can extract the LinkedIn 
username of the candidate and send it to PPM for personality 
prediction. In addition, we can extend the RRM to 
recommend job roles to candidates based on the data 
extracted from CVs. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
“DevFlair” is a framework that assists in automating the 
pre-screening process of Software Engineering related job 
candidates. It uses data from social media to identify Big-Five 
personality traits, a questionnaire to identify technical skill 
expertise, data from GitHub to analyze the usage of the online 
platform related to different technical skills, and finally rank 
them accordingly. With “DevFlair” recruiters can identify the 
Software Engineering job candidates with the right 
personality traits, and right skill sets, minimizing the common 
difficulties that occur in the pre-screening process due to 
human error. 
REFERENCES 
[1]  G. R. Gould Ed., "Finding the right candidate," in Records 
Management Journal, vol. 2, no. 1, 1990.  
[2]  Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, "Software 
Developers, Quality Assurance Analysts, and Testers," [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information
technology/software-developers.htm. [Accessed 25 June 2022]. 
[3]  T. C. John Karn, "A follow up study of the effect of personality on the 
performance of software engineering teams," presented at the 
ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software 
Engineering, 2006.  
[4]  A. C. A. A. Stratos Kourtzanidis, "RepoSkillMiner: Identifying 
software expertise from GitHub repositories using Natural Language 
Processing," presented at the 35th IEEE/ACM International 
Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE), Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia, 2020.  
[5]  J. F. Salgado, Ed., "A theoretical model of psychometric effects of 
faking on assessment procedures: Empirical findings and implications 
for personality at work," in International Journal of Selection and 
Assessment, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 209–228, 2016.  
[6]  K. P. S. S. O. L. A. N. S. T. D. Sewwandi, "Linguistic features based 
personality recognition using social media data," presented at the 6th 
National Conference on Technology and Management (NCTM), 
2017.  
[7]  F. P. L. A. L. B. Piedboeuf, "Personality Extraction Through 
LinkedIn," presented at the Advances in Artificial Intelligence, Cham, 
2019.  
[8]  S. A. P. S. M. E. A. Bhardwaj, "Personality assessment using multiple 
online social networks," in Multimedia Tools and Applications., 2016 
vol. 75, no. 21, pp. 13237–13269.  
[9]  S. T. Fiske, "What the hell took so long? Donald W. Fiske and the big
five factor structure," in Personality Research, Methods, and Theory: 
A Festschrift Honoring Donald W. Fiske, P. E. Shrout, Ed., Hillsdale, 
New Jersey, U.S.A: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1995, p. 29. 
[10] T. A. J. Stephen P. Robbins, Essentials of Organizational Behavior, 
14th Edition, Pearson, 2017.  
[11] E. G. A. J. T. M. Piotr Bojanowski, Eds., "Enriching Word Vectors 
with Subword Information," in Transactions of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics, vol. 5, pp. 135-146, 2017.  
[12] S. S. A. B. S. A. S. A. and B. H. A. S. Y. Alamri, Eds., "Satellite Image 
Classification by Using Distance Metric," in International Journal of 
Computer Science and Information Security, vol. 3, no. 14, p. 65, 
2016.  
[13] R. K. S. J. S. and K. N. Jayasekara, DevFlair: A Framework to 
Automate the Pre-screening Process of Software Engineering Job 
Candidates 
Version 
1.1.0 
https://github.com/rukshan99/devflair. 
(2022). 
Available: 
[14] J. W. and K. L. A. Pennebaker, Eds., "Linguistic styles: Language use 
as an individual difference," in Journal of Personality and Social 
Psychology, vol. 6, no. 77, pp. 1296–1312, 1999.  
[15] F. Mairesse, M. A. Walker, M. R. Mehl and R. K. and Moore, Eds., 
"Using Linguistic Cues for the Automatic Recognition of Personality 
in Conversation and Text," in Journal of Artificial Intelligence 
Research, vol. 1, no. 30, pp. 457-500, 2007.  
[16] R. J. D. R. M. Tett, Ed., "Personality measures as predictors of job 
performance: A meta-analytic review," in Personnel Psychology, vol. 
4, no. 44, pp. 703-742, 1991.  
[17] F. P. D. S. M. K. Fabio Celli, "Workshop on Computational 
Personality Recognition: Shared Task," AAAI Workshop., Palo Alto, 
California, USA, Tech. Rep. WS-13-01, 2013.  